A small town gradually becomes aware of a strange creature which picks off people one by one. But what is this creature, and where is it? At the same time, a seismologist is working in the area, she detects _tremors_. The creature lives underground, and can 'pop up' without warning. Trapped in their town, the town-folk have no escape.
A group of people in a small peaceful town named "Perfection" located in Nevada. The peace becomes hysteria once people are being killed underground in mysterious ways. The town then investigates, and will do anything to protect their town and their selves.
Trying to escape their dead-end life in the desert town of Perfection, Nevada, Valentine "Val" McKee and Earl Bassett find themselves sidetracked when corpses mysteriously start piling up around them. When Val and Earl have a run-in with some creepy tentacled creatures that have made lunch out of a road crew, they retreat back to the town to spread the news. Although these monsters are not exactly intellectuals, their mental powers are still mind-boggling. Detecting a human hiding in a car, they dig under the vehicle, causing it to sink into the earth. Val and Earl get help from several townspeople. With the help of Rhonda, Val and Earl kill one of the monsters. But there are three of them left, and they are each about 30 feet long. Walter starts calling the monsters graboids. When the survivors think they have outwitted the graboids by taking refuge atop the roofs of buildings, the graboids merely destroy the buildings' foundations, killing two people. The graboids are quick learners when it comes to stalking their prey, and the humans must continually be on their toes if they are to stay alive while they try to find a way to defeat the graboids.
Natives of a small isolated town defend themselves against strange underground creatures which are killing them one by one.


Valentine "Val" McKee (Kevin Bacon) and Earl Bassett (Fred Ward) are two good-for-nothing odd-job workers. They usually mend fences and railings, help farmers in a sleepy town called Perfection, and take care of cows. They have the use of a down-trodden truck, and not much money to their names. The live near a dry dusty town, and are friends with most of the villagers. Perfection occupies a small part of dried-out Perfection Valley, surrounded by small mountains, except for a county road.
Rhonda LeBeck (Finn Carter), is a university student which investigates earthquakes. She tells them that she's getting weird signs from their seismographs, but there were no earthquakes around. Val likes her, but prefers daydreaming about some playmate, so he doesn't ask the seismologist out .
The two friends Earl and Val are attacked by a kind of snake which appears from below the dusty soil. Also, they find the town drunkyard on the top of a electricity post, dead. They start wondering whether he was so afraid of something that he preferred dying up there of thirst. They try to warn some of their isolated neighbours, and they find an earthed car with its lights on and music from the radio still blasting.
The two friends go to the town drugstore to tell everyone. First, they try to leave by truck. However, the road is blocked because the snakes attacked some road building workers (John Goodwin & John Pappas). Val and Earl come back, after their car gets stuck but they managed to release it. Back in Perfection, they find a huge snake grabbing at the lows of their truck. The shopkeeper, mean Walter Chang (Victor Wong), lends them two horses so they can go and tell the county police, because all phone lines are cut, and there are no mobile phone network coverage on the area. Several people are not worried at all: dumb teenager Melvin Plug (Robert Jayne) mocks them, Burt and Heather Gummer (Michael Gross and Reba McEntire) have built themselves a nuclear refuge, and crammed it with heavy weaponry, so they don't feel they need to have fear of nothing.
Val and Earl ride for dear life. But their horses are bitten by some of the snakes. They run away on foot, but the creature runs after them. They would have been caught but for the creature hitting itself agains a huge concrete wall to death. At that moment, the seismologist appears again. They discover that the creature stinks horribly, is several metres long, and that the snakes were a kind of tentacles protuding from its mouth. Rhonda checks her seismographs, learning that there must be at least three more of those snakes.
When the three are going back, another of the creatures tries to capture them. They see dust flying, a sign that a critter is moving underground. They run and end up up to some tall rocks where the creatures cannot climb. They stay there, but the creatures are very patient. They manage to climb from one rock to the other, and jumping into their van, being closely followed by the meat-hunger monsters. The creatures feel them because they can make sense of the noise humans make in the form of vibrations.
Back to the drugstore, Walter decides to call the monsters graboids. Melvin is still mocking Earl and Val stupidly, but Val has to risk her life to save Mindy Sterngood (Ariana Richards), who had been hopping around with her headphones on, not listening to her mother Nancy (Charlotte Stewart)'s cries. When they think they have outwitted the graboids by taking refuge atop the roofs of buildings, the graboids destroy the buildings' foundations. The buildings are simple and fragile, completely made of planks of wood. A graboid manages to eat Walter, emerging from under the cheap wooden shopfloor. Another graboid eats Nestor, and one of them manages to destroy one of the underground walls of the Gummers, but they fight back with all their weaponry, finally killing the vicious creature.
The survivors pick up a bulldozer and they try to run on it. They also go to pick up the Gummers, which have prepared many weapons. The graboids are highly intelligent, and they prepare a trap for the humans, which succeeds. They all have to run to some rocks. They wait there, surrounded by the graboids.
They think of another plan. They throw dynamite to the animals, who swallow everything but are afraid of strong noises, which hurt their sensitive sense. The dynamite explodes within one of the critters, killing them. They try the same trick with the other graboid, but the remaing critter spits the dynamite, and they have to run away from their safe hidingplace. Val is on the open earth, so he is going to be detected and eaten by the surviving graboid. He decides to run, but the graboid is very fast. When Val is about to jump from a high cliff, he steps aside, but the graboid can't stop, and falls from it.
They are happily alive, and Earl coaxes Val into asking Rhonda out.
The final scene shows some loose dirt moving on the dry soil of the valley, proving that there is at least one more ravenous creature alive.


