Bored with her marriage to burnt out poet turned corporate executive Thierry, Zandalee falls prey to an old friend of her husband, the manipulative and egotistical Johhny and becomes enmeshed in a sensual, passionate and destructive affair. But it isn't only the flames of their erotic affair that are fanned by the steamy heat of the deep New Orleans nights; hatred, desire and revenge stalk the lovers' with a relentless precision, and for Zandalee, the moment of truth arrives with a terrifying finality.


Zandalee is a romantic tragedy filmed entirely in New Orleans.
Zandalee Martin (Erika Anderson) is frustrated and feeling unfulfilled with her marriage to Thierry Martin (Judge Reinhold), and eventually gets tangled in a passionate, sensual and torrid affair with her husbands mysterious and free spirited old friend Johnny Collins (Nicholas Cage).
Zandalee and Thierrys marriage has hit a snag and seems to be eroding. Zan needs to explore, while Thierry wants to withdraw, and has become more and more distant and impotent in their relationship. He used to be a poet, but now has taken over the family's communications business after the death of his father. As time goes on, Thierry has to sell the business and become basically a figure head. He is emotionally adrift as his dreams give way to disillusionment. Zandalee is trying to make the marriage work, but is frustrated.
Enter Johnny Collins, an old friend of Thierry (the two run in to each other at a bachelor's party). He is an artist by trade, but has been working for Thierry's business to help support his paintings.His only religion is self-gratification. After the party, Thierry brings Johnny home to meet Zan and his grandmother Tatta (Viveca Lindfors). While talking about old times, Johnny offers to paint a portrait of Thierry at their home.
Later, after finishing the painting, Johnny shows it to Thierry, Zandalee and Tatta. While they go off to other rooms and sensing Zandalee's frustration and vulnerability, Collins makes a pass at her. Later, Johnny pursues her and when they run into eachother during a rain storm, he makes his move, seducing her in his loft in a very graphic love scene, which is followed by him erotically painting her. Zandalee and Johnny do it in an alley and even in the her laundry room on top of a washing machine while Thierry and guests are having dinner.
As the affair intensifies, Johnny asks Zandalee to leave her husband, when she refuses he forces himself on her in a church confessional. Though Zandalee never abandons her true love Thierry, and trys to end the affair, realizing how deranged Johnny is. She and Thierry re-commit themselves to each other, but Johnny, now obsessed with her will not be brushed off that easily. He tracks them to their vacation spot in the Bayou. All of this puts the three on a destructive collision course with a tragic sequence of events.
Geri (Joe Pantoliano) is Zan's gay confidant, renowned musician (Aaron Neville) plays Jack the bartender and veteran actress (Viveca Lindfors) is Thierry's grandmother Tatta, the original hipster. The movie was also called "The Affair" in Germany and Italy (on vhs) where Zandalee's death at the end is left out.

