Gifted with powers to oversee incidents much before they happen; Devi attempts to uncover the secrets of her sister Rama's death whose body was discovered in one of the walls of her multi-millionaire husband, Ram Kumar bungalow. Devi's investigations lead her to discover that Ram Kumar was involved in the death of her sister - while she has another vision - such a vision that will make her a target by an unstoppable assassin.
Devi is gifted with Extra Sensory Perception (ESP). Her gift comes to light one day while playing tennis with her friend, Sudha, when she has a vision of her sister, Rama, being shot to death by a man in a black raincoat. She telephones Rama, finds she is safe and is relieved. Shortly thereafter Rama disappears, the police are notified, but are unable to find any trace of her. Devi then meets multi-millionaire, Ram Kumar, both fall in love and get married. She moves into his once abandoned and legally disputed bungalow, and that's when she starts having visions again. These visions lead her to a wall that is loosely plastered. She breaks down the wall with a pick-axe and finds a skeleton of a woman, who is later identified as Rama. Now having come to know that her premonitions are more or less accurate, Devi starts to have another vision - this time of a woman being stabbed by a bald man. Together with Ram and her friend, Sunil, Devi attempts to unearth the truth, which can be found only on a video cassette marked "100 Days", knowing fully well that she may well be the next target of an unstoppable assassin.
A young, clairvoyant woman has a vision of a murder and sets out to uncover the truth before the killer finds her.


100 Days is the story of Devi (Madhuri Dixit), who has a form of power called premonition or ESP for short as doctors say. One day a reality is shown to her while playing tennis with her friend which shocks her. The reality is that her sister Rama (Moonmoon Sen) is getting ready and combing her hair and a man in black raincoat fights with her and later kills her. She gets tensed and worried and immediately decides to call her sister Rama and is releived to find that she is hale and hearty and absolutely okay.
After few days her sister Rama suddenly goes missing and police are unable to trace her or getting any information about her. Five years passes by but her sister Rama doesnt return. Devi loses all hopes.
One bright day she meets up with business tycoon Mr. Ram Kumar (Jackie Shroff). Ram instantly falls in love with Devi and tries different ways to impress her and finally Devi falls in love with him and they both marry each other.
On residing with her husband, one day she decides to take a look at her husbands bungalow and feels that the bungalow is insecure and along with the help of her friend Sunil (Javed Jaffery) she breaks the wall and finds her sister Ramas, skeleton. After that things seems to cool down with Devi for a couple of days until one day she was seeing another woman called Parvathi murdered by a man in bald called Jagmohan in her dreams which take her to the evidence that will revealed her sisters true killer on a cassette marked 100 Days

