Viren, on a visit to India, falls in love with Pallavi, who happens to be older than he is. Her age doesn't bother him but as Dai Maa points out, its unusal in India for the woman to be older than the man. During a property dispute and a court case, Paalavi's father suddenly dies of a heart-attack. She is shattered. He goes to comfort her but finds out she was never in love with him, but with a pilot, Vinod. They get married and Viren leaves for London. A year later, Vinod and Pallavi die in an accident. She leaves behind a daughter, Pooja. She grows up to look like a replica of her beautiful mother. When Viren visits India, he gets a shock when he sees her the first time. Pooja slowly reveals that she is in love with Viren, but Viren still loves Pallavi, the memories of Pallavi never leave him. The film is about unrequited love, living life with a passion, friendship and more.
A governess, affectionately called Dai Jaa (Waheeda Rehman), accompanies a young may she has cared for all her life, for the first time to his ancestors land in Rajasthan, India, whose name is Virendra Pratap Singh (Anil Kapoor). Virendra, or Viren as he is called by Dai Jaa, tries to adjust to the climate and the customs of Rajasthan, especially the heat. One day he comes across a group of young women singing in the rain. His eyes linger on one in particular, who is Pallavi (Sridevi). Viren cannot get Pallavi out of his mind, and wishes to marry her. Dai Jaa informs him that Pallave is older than him. But Viren does not regard this as an obstacle. He is, however, taken aback when he comes to know that Pallavi loves another man, and is to marry him soon. Pallavi does marry, and relocate to her husband's house. Shortly after giving birth to a baby girl, both her and her husband suffer an untimely death in a vehicle accident. Years later Viren returns only to find that Pallavi's daughter, Pooja (Sridevi) is the exact image of her mother, as he had seen her on his previous visit. And this time it is young Pooja that is in love with an older Viren.
