Harris K Telemacher is a 'wacky weekend weatherman' for a local Los Angeles television station who is searching for meaning in his otherwise cliche ridden Los Angeles life. With the help of an insightful and talkative Freeway sign, Harris embarks on a journey through Los Angeles in pursuit of Sarah, an English reporter who has been sent to the City of Angels to research an article for the London Times.
In Los Angeles, the meteorologist Harris K. Telemacher is the wacky weatherman of television news. He has a wasted relationship with his obnoxious girlfriend Trudi and he feel that he lives a boring life. When Harris meets the Londoner journalist Sara McDowell, who has come to LA to write en article for the London Times, in a brunch party with her ex-husband Roland Mackey and other friends, he believes that she is the woman of his life. Harris does not know how to seduce her and he discovers that Trudi has been cheating him with his agent for three years. Then Harry dates the younger aspirant spokesmodel SanDeE* because he believes that Sara is interested in her ex-husband. However a freeway signpost helps Harry to woo Sara.
Harris Telemacher is the "Wacky Weather" presenter for a Los Angeles television station. He finds himself battling the insane conditions and people caused by the manic chaos that is Los Angeles. Striving to achieve happiness (or at least a date), he finds a helping hand from the last person he expected: the city of Los Angeles itself.
In this spin on the traditional romantic comedy, Harris K. Tellemacher, a Shakespeare-quoting, Los Angeles TV weatherman is looking for something meaningful for his life. The Los Angeles Freeway sign informs him that the weather will change his life in two ways, and Harris begins to search for the meaning behind that message.
With the help of a talking freeway billboard, a "wacky weatherman" tries to win the heart of an English newspaper reporter, who is struggling to make sense of the strange world of early-90s Los Angeles.
