Sherlock Holmes agrees to investigate suspected murders in a village whose ancestors had killed a prominent family a century ago that they thought were vampires. These deaths appear to be linked to a descendant of that family, a man who seems to have something malevolently supernatural about him, much like a vampire itself.
The Reverend Merridew entreats Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson to come and bring reason to his simple village. A century earlier the inhabitants killed a prominent family thought to be vampires. John Stockton, a descendant of that family, has recently returned, and the people fear supernatural retribution. When a blacksmith dies while under an intense gaze from the man, followed shortly by the death of an infant whom he merely touched the night before, Holmes heeds the call - not to solve a murder but to prevent one before unreasoning fear takes hold and the town becomes a lynch mob once again.
Sherlock Holmes is recruited by the Reverend Augustus Merridew to investigate the recent death of a young child. Merridew is concerned that with rumors going about his village, violence may erupt at any time. The dead child, a mere baby, belonged to an old school mate of Dr. Watson, Rob Ferguson and his new wife, the South American born Carlotta. The problem lies with a recent arrival in the village, Mr. John Sinclair Stockton, whose family had been run out of the village over a hundred years ago. The rumor sweeping the village is that Stockton, like his ancestors, is a vampire and that it was he who caused the baby's death. Holmes and Watson travel to the village and search for a more rational explanation to a series of bizarre events that is haunting everyone.
Sherlock Holmes investigates strange and tragic happenings in a village that appear linked to a man who seems to be like a vampire.


In 1782, in the small Sussex village of Lamberley, the St Claire
family was deemed vampires. So certain were the villagers that they burned
the home of the St Claires and buried them outside of the church cemetery.
It is now one hundred years later, in Victorian England. Sherlock Holmes
[Jeremy Brett] and Dr Watson [Edward Hardwicke] have been requested by the Reverend Augustus Merridew [Maurice Denham]
to come to Lamberley to investigate newcomer John Stockton [Roy Marsden], a descendent
of the St Claires. His presence is upsetting the villagers, who think of
him as a vampire returned to exact revenge, and he has been blamed for a
number of incidents, including the death of the infant son of Bob
Ferguson [Keith Barron], an old rugby buddy of Watson's.
Ferguson became involved with Stockton when he invited Stockton, who
has traveled extensively in Peru and is somewhat of an authority on
religious cults and customs among the South American Indians (having
written several books on the subject) to share dinner with his
family-- his wife Carlotta [Yolanda Vasquez] (also from Peru), his crippled son
Jack [Richard Dempsey] (from a previous marriage), and baby Ricardo (his son with Carlotta).
Stockton had but touched the baby's hand, and the next morning the infant
was found dead. The reverend tells of other suspicious events, such as the
fact that Stockton stays up all night, walks through the church cemetery
in the dead of night, has never set foot inside the church, and is held
responsible by the villagers for an outbreak of influenza and for killing
the blacksmith with just a look. Holmes is unconvinced that Stockton has
committed any crime, but he agrees to come to Lamberley, if only to find a
rational explanation.
Holmes and Watson arrive the next day, just in time to witness baby
Ricardo's funeral. As the grieving family surrounds the grave, Holmes
notices Jack Ferguson leaving the group and going into the bushes where he
meets with Stockton. When Jack doesn't return home after the funeral, his
father is concerned. Even more disconcerting to Ferguson is when he takes
dinner to his grieving wife, and she rebukes him and sends him away, but
he becomes truly alarmed the next morning when he learns that Carlotta and
Dolores [Juliet Aubrey] (Carlotta's maid and friend from Peru) have gone riding with
Stockton. Fortunately, they all return in good health, yet Ferguson is
sinking rapidly. He has taken to drinking, and he blames Stockton for the
loss of his wife's affection and the fact that Jack seems to spend every
afternoon visiting at Stockton's cottage, studying the violin and reading
Stockton's books.
That evening, Holmes pays a visit to Stockton, and the two of them go
for a carriage ride. They stop at the burnt ruins of his ancestral home.
While there, an odd thing happens. Stockton disappears, and Holmes finds
him some minutes later crying and screaming at a shimmering light as
though it was a ghost after him. Later, when Holmes recounts his
experience to Ferguson and Watson, he admits to seeing the ghost and even
admits that there are such things as living "sponges" who suck up the
energy of others. He thinks that Stockton might be one of them. He
suggests that Stockton's hold over people may be due to something he has
learned from the South American Indians, perhaps mind control or hypnosis.
The flu outbreak is keeping Watson busy in Lamberley, as his
doctoring skills are needed. Holmes needs some answers, so he goes back to
the St Claire ruins. While there, he happens to witness the sun reflecting
from a broken mirror, causing a shimmering effect. He also notices Jack
there. This sets him to thinking about the shimmering light that he took
for a ghost and why Jack might be there.
When Jack and Stockton finally come back that evening, Ferguson is
livid. He accuses Stockton of preying on his family as part of his
vendetta, of turning his family into vampires, and he attacks Stockton
with a poker. However, Stockton uses whatever mind-controlling power he
has to stop the attack, then hightails it out of there. It has begun to
rain and, on the way back home, Stockton's carriage loses a wheel.
Stockton is thrown, and killed.
The entire village is in good spirits the next morning, thinking that
all their problems are over now that Stockton is dead. Holmes and Watson
plan to return to London, but they stay long enough to attend Stockton's
funeral, along with the Fergusons. The villagers remain outside, gawking
and frowning, incensed that Stockton is being given a Christian burial.
During the service, Jack becomes ill and leaves the church. Watson chalks
it up to claustrophobia and grief over Stockton's death, as Jack and
Stockton had become quite close.
Stockton having no survivors, Holmes agrees to look into Stockton's
cottage to determine what to do with his possessions, not to mention
snoop. What he finds are potions and books about religion, witchcraft, and
sorcery, and a diary in which Stockton admits to drawing strength from
Carlotta and Dolores. Watson finds a book about vampires in which he reads
about a type of vampire that will bring a victim to the point of death,
then nurse the victim back to health with all the outward appearances of
love, only to devour her again, whereby he is forever nourished.
Meanwhile, Dolores and Michael [Jason Hetherington], who have had a little hankypanky
going on all along (much to Jack's dismay) are walking in the woods.
Dolores disappears for a few moments, then Michael hears her scream. He
finds her in a faint with two puncture wounds in her neck. Describing the
incident the next morning to Holmes, Michael is adamant that it was
Stockton who did it, even though Stockton is dead and buried. Of course,
Holmes doesn't believe it, but the villagers do. That's all it takes for
them to burn Stockton's possessions, dig up his body, and take it back to
the St Claire ruins.
When Holmes goes round to the Fergusons to check on Dolores, he finds
that there is another injury in the Ferguson household. It seems that the
family dog suddenly became paralyzed the previous evening. While Ferguson
cares for the dog, Jack hovers over Dolores, holding her hand. When
Carlotta pops in unexpectantly to check on Dolores, she slaps Jack,
apparently for no reason, and he runs off. When Ferguson pops in to check
on Carlotta and Dolores, he finds Carlotta, with blood on her lips, rising
from Dolores' neck. Believing his wife to be a vampire just like Stockton,
Ferguson races to the woodshop to make a stake.
Fortunately, Carlotta had figured it out. So has Holmes. What Jack
had been attempting to hide was a vial of curare and a two-pronged arrow.
The arrow, dipped in curare, was used to make the "bite marks" in Dolores'
neck after first testing it on the family dog. Carlotta was attempting to
suck out the curare when Ferguson found her. Holmes figures Jack as a
disturbed adolescent who admired Stockton's effect upon people and control
over women. Jack probably wanted that same power, that same respect, and
maybe Dolores' love, so he either stole or was given the curare in order
to make it so.
Meanwhile, Ferguson has gone to the ruins to stake Stockton's body
into his coffin. Just before he hammers in the stake, however, he is hit
from behind and knocked out by his son, Jack. Holmes and Watson catch up
with Ferguson, just as Jack, believing himself to be a vampire, jumps off
the roof in an attempt to fly and so falls to his death.
In the epilogue, Stockton's body is sent to another church and buried
there (may he rest in peace), and the Fergusons decide to go back to Peru.
[Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]

