Martin Bishop is the head of a group of experts who specialise in testing security systems. When he is blackmailed by Government agents into stealing a top secret black box, the team find themselves embroiled in a game of danger and intrigue. After they recover the box, they discover that it has the capability to decode all existing encryption systems around the world, and that the agents who hired them didn't work for the Government after all...
In 1969, the idealistic hackers Martin Brice and Cosmos use the computer to transfer funds from conservative politicians to liberal causes. Martin goes out of the building to buy a pizza for them and Cosmos is arrested. Twenty years later, Cosmos has died in prison and Brice use the alias Martin "Marty" Bishop to run a company that tests security systems with the specialists Donald Crease that is a former CIA agent; the blind Irwin 'Whistler' Emery that is specialist in sounds; Darren 'Mother' Roskow that is an awesome technician that believes in theories of conspiracy; and Carl Arbogast that is a young genius. One day, the NSA agents Dick Gordon and Buddy Wallace visit Martin's office and he is blackmailed by them that know his real identity. They want that Martin and his crew retrieve a black box from Dr. Gunter Janek, a mathematician that developed a cryptography system for the Russian government in a project called Setec Astronomy. In return, they would clear his name and give US$ 175,000.00 for Martin and his team. Martin asks his former girlfriend Liz to help him and soon they recover the box and deliver to the NSA agents. Soon Martin learns that he was lured by Dick and Wallace, and Janek that was murdered was working indeed for the National Security Agency in a system capable to break any computer encryption. Further, he has been incriminated in the murder of Janek and two other men and his only way out of the trap he is involved is recovering once again the black box.
A group of security analysts are offered a job by the CIA and when they are reluctant, pressure is brought to bear by the threat to disclose the identity of their leader, a 60s radical with outstanding warrants. A chip exists that will allow any computer to be cracked, and organized crime will soon control it, though sudden changes in their police records suggest that it is already operational.
A security pro finds his past coming back to haunt him, when he and his unique team are tasked with retrieving a particularly important item.
