Sister Act is about a Reno lounge singer named Deloris Van Carter who witnesses her mobster boyfriend killing an employee. She is then hidden in a convent under a witness protection program. She soon makes friends with the nuns, especially Sister Mary Robert, Sister Mary Lazuras and Sister Mary Patrick. After the Mother Superior catches Deloris going out to a bar in the night followed by Mary Robert and Mary Patrick, she orders her to join the church choir. Only to find her coaching the choir and turning them into swingin' singin' sisters. The choir proves to be a big success with the surrounding neighborhood, but will Deloris' boyfriend track her down...
Delores Van Cartier is a singer who wants to make it big. She is having a romance with a guy called Vince but when he won't leave his wife she breaks up with him.After wards, she witnesses a murder which was ordered by Vince. Delores runs to the police who say she must stay in hiding for a while. However this hiding place isn't an old run down house, or a caravan no, it's a convent! Delores' new identity is Sister Mary Clarence. However Delores, doesn't just sit around all day in the lifeless, boring convent, no she goes clubbing and makes friends with the nuns. She also turns the dull, lifeless choir into a hip one which makes the church more popular with young people. However how long will it be before knowledge of this choir and Delores reaches Vince?
A Vegas singer witnesses a mob murder and the cops stash her in a nunnery to protect her from the hitmen. The mother superior does not trust her, and takes steps to limit her influence on the other nuns. Eventually the singer rescues the failing choir and begins helping with community projects, which gets her an interview on TV. This alerts the mob to her whereabouts, and the chase is back on.
Delores is having an affair with her Mafia boss, Vince. Her career as a singer in Las Vegas is going nowhere and Vince won't divorce his wife and she goes to him to break it off, witnessing a murder Vince just ordered. Running from the club, she seeks police protection. They agree to hide her in the one place Vince would never look for her. She finds, to her chagrin, that it is a convent, where she must impersonate a nun. After several false starts, she is assigned to the convent's dismal choir. She challenges and reorganizes them to become a modern singing group. In this she is successful, and as the choir gets better, success brings it's own problems.
When a worldly singer witnesses a mob crime, the police hide her as a nun in a traditional convent where she has trouble fitting in.


The film opens at St. Anne's Academy, a California Catholic school in 1968, where a young girl named Deloris Wilson is scolded for wisecracking and disobeying rules. The setting then changes to the present day, where Deloris Van Cartier is a lounge singer working in a casino called The Moonlight Lounge, located in Reno, Nevada run by her boyfriend, Vince LaRocca, a mobster. After Deloris witnesses Vince executing a chauffeur, Vince orders his men Joey and Willy to kill her too. Deloris flees Vince's casino to the local police station where Lieutenant Eddie Souther suggests she testify against Vince if he can be arrested and tried, but for now, she should go into witness protection until the time comes.
Deloris is taken to St. Katherine's Roman Catholic Church in a seedy run down neighborhood of San Francisco, where Souther suggests she disguise herself as a nun. Both Deloris and the Reverend Mother object, but are convinced by Souther and Monsignor O'Hara to go ahead with it. Deloris becomes a nun and is given the name "Sister Mary Clarence". Mary Clarence objects to following the simple lives of the nunnery, but comes to befriend several of the nuns, including the forever jolly Sister Mary Patrick, quiet and meek Sister Mary Robert, and the elderly deadpan Sister Mary Lazarus. After sneaking into a nearby bar, Mary Clarence is punished by Reverend Mother and put into the choir, which she has seen to be dreadful. The choir nuns, having heard "Sister Mary Clarence" has a background in music, elect her to take over as choir director, which she accepts, and she rearranges them to make them better singers. At the Sunday Mass, the choir sings perfectly before going into a gospel and rock and roll-infused performance of "Hail Holy Queen".
The Reverend Mother is infuriated, but Monsignor O'Hara is thrilled as the music brought people in off the streets. The choir cleans up the neighborhood and wows church-goers with their music, with Souther eventually attending a performance of "My Guy" (appropriately rewritten as "My God"). Eventually, O'Hara announces to the choir that Pope John Paul II is to visit the church to see the choir himself. Reverend Mother decides to hand in her resignation since her authority has been unintentionally undermined, but Mary Clarence offers to leave in her stead, to which the Reverend Mother disagrees. Detective Tate, a police officer on Vince's payroll, finds out where Deloris is and contacts Vince, who sends Joey and Willy out to grab her. Souther realizes Tate's betrayal, has him arrested, and flies to San Francisco to warn Mary Clarence, but she is kidnapped by Vince's men.
The nuns, led by the Reverend Mother risk their lives by going to Reno to save Mary Clarence. Meanwhile, she escapes Vince and his men, leading to a chase around the casino until the nuns find her and try to sneak out. Vince, Joey and Willy confront the nuns, but are unable to bring themselves to shoot Deloris while she is in a nun's habit, and Souther bursts in, shoots Vince in the arm, and has the men arrested. The film ends with the choir, led by Deloris, singing before the Pope "I Will Follow Him", earning a round of applause that is led by the Pope and Reverend Mother. The end credits reveals Deloris' secret life as a nun was sold to the media and has become a sensation.

