Aaina is the story of two sisters, Roma (Amrita Singh) and Reema (Juhi Chawla) with very different personalities. However, they fall for the same man, Ravi (Jackie Shroff). Ravi becomes captivated by Roma. Reema becomes heartbroken at the announcement of Ravi and Roma's wedding. Roma, more interested in a modeling career, ditches Ravi on their wedding day. Unexpectedly, Ravi asks for Reema's hand in marriage. However shocked and hurt, Reema agrees. Reema and Ravi start married life under a dark cloud. Just at their marriage starts to become a beautiful reality, Roma comes back into their lives causing nothing but grief. Does Ravi succumb to Roma's seduction. Does Reema learn to stick up for herself? Does love unite Ravi and Reema? All is revealed!!!
Mr. Gupta, his wife, and two daughters live a comfortable and wealthy lifestyle. He has earned enough to give everything to his wife and daughters, Roma and Reema. Roma, the elder daughter, has a very competitive spirit, and wants to be the first in everything, including the contest that she loses to her younger sister. But Reema relinquishes the title and lets Roma keep the winner's crown. This sibling rivalry continues even when the girls' grow up. When Roma finds out that Reema is in love with handsome and wealthy Ravi Saxena, she leaves no stone unturned to win over Ravi's love for her, and manages to convince him, using all her charms, that they are made for each other. Ravi falls head over heels in love with Roma, and both plan to marry. On the day of the marriage, a lucrative offer to act in movies comes for Roma, and she instantly accepts it. Ravi is enraged, and hastily announces that he hates Roma, and marries Reema. After their marriage, Reema realizes that Ravi has still not gotten Roma out of his heart. Then things get complicates when Roma returns and blames Reema for snatching her true love away from her, and refuses to leave until Ravi accepts her as his own bride. Reema has always lived in Roma's shadow and has accepted her fate, but she holds a slight hope that Ravi may not succumb to Roma's charms this time, but she also knows that her hope may well be in vain.


Aaina is the story of two sisters in love with the same man. Roma, the more confident and ambitious one captivates Ravi and brings him home to meet her parents and have the match approved. Reema, realising that Ravi and Roma are involved with each other, quietly moves herself out of the competition and hiding her sadness, joins in the festivities of her sister's marriage. But Roma in her typical fashion of losing interest once she has what she wants, has set her sights on more than marriage and living the rest of her life as Mrs. Ravi Saxena.
In the meanwhile, a published picture of hers gets a top photographer interested in her. He encourages her to have a photo session done against the wishes of her fiancee. It doesn't take much to convince Roma. She is convinced that she has a glorious career ahead of her in fashion and films and ditches Ravi at the "mandap" (wedding place). She leaves behind a note telling Ravi that she is confident that he will wait for her, but since the film producer won't, she is leaving. And that she will come back as soon as the movie is over and get married to him. Reema and the rest of the family are stunned and look to Ravi for his reaction. They are further shocked when Ravi controls his feelings and instantaneously decides to marry Reema instead. Reema seeing the man she loves in pain cannot refuse him and agrees to the marriage.
Reema and Ravi start their marriage under a cloud but slowly Ravi discovers that true worth of Reema, and she in turn blossoms under the attention of the man she loves and from a shy, timid and self effacing young girl grows into a beautiful confident woman.
But life is not all roses and wine and just as their marriage was coming close to becoming a beautiful reality, Roma comes back into their lives. In her supremely selfish way she forgets the pain she caused Ravi, Reema and the family by running away on her wedding day. Instead she accuses Reema and Ravi of stabbing her in the back and walks out of Ravi's house cursing them with life filled with unhappiness for being unfaithful to her. Reema's uncertainties surface again. All her life she has lived in the shadow of her sister and given in to her every whim. The tenuous bond between Ravi and Reema is stretched thin again and they are back in their separate bedrooms with Roma's almost palpable presence like a wall between them.
But Roma has no intentions of giving up with just the curses. Her alienation from her family and an attempted suicide and her relying on Reema's selflessness and genuine love for her, ensure that she lands in Reema and Ravi's marital home as an invalid. The rest of the film tells of how she slowly becomes blatant in making a play for Ravi. And how Ravi slowly succumbs to her manipulation. Or does he? And does Reema finally learn to fight back? Does love unite Reema and Ravi or is Roma finally victorious? That is revealed only in the last reel of "AAINA".


