Widowed Madan Chopra lives a very wealthy lifestyle with two daughters, Seema and Priya. His passion is car racing, and realizing that he is not young anymore, has his last race and wins - only to find out that another competitor, Vicky Malhotra, let him win. Madan befriends Vicky, introduces him to Priya and invites him to work for him in Bombay. Vicky and Priya are attracted to each other, much to Madan's delight and he announces their marriage. Before that could happen, Seema kills herself by throwing herself down from the roof of a multi-storied building. While Madan wants to close this case due to embarrassment, Seema meets with her college friend, Police Inspector Karan, and together they begin to unravel a plot that may well end Madan and the lives of others as well.
Ajay Sharma assumes the identity of Vicky Malhotra and feigns love for both Priya and Seema with the intention of taking revenge on their wealthy dad Madan Chopra. Ajay mercilessly throws Seema down a multi-storied building killing her; he then begins working for Chopra so that he can embezzle his property.
Wealthy widower Madan Chopra has two young and marriageable aged daughters, Priya and Seema. Madan would like Priya to marry Vicky Malhotra, his business associate, to which she reluctantly agrees. Seema attends college and is seduced by Ajay Sharma and aspires to marry him secretly. But when they go to register the marriage Ajay mysteriously kills Seema by throwing her off a multi-storied building. A grief-stricken Priya is unable to forget this incident and what she does not know is that Vicky is not what he claims to be.
Be-spectacled Ajay lives a very non-descriptive life with his mother, Mrs. Sharma. Quite unknown to the rest of the world, Ajay has an alias of Vicky Malhotra - which he assumes to seduce initially Seema Chopra, get her to agree to marry him, and throws her off the top of a multi-storied. After her death, Vicky now takes it upon himself to lure the deceased sister, Priya, with considerable success. He is all set now to bring her life to an end - when unexpectedly he finds himself falling in love with her. Things get worse, when Priya finds out that the identity of the person who killed Seema, and attempts to enlist his assistance to catch the elusive culprit.
Vishwanath Sharma is the owner of a well-spacious estate within his community. A widower named Madan Chopra along with his two daughters, Priya and Seema appears at his door for shelter. Seeing there plight Vishwanath pities them and offers them a room in his household. Soon Madan begins to work with Vishwanath. Vishwanath had to leave for some business opportunity abroad and so entrust his business and property to Madan to take care of. But on his return from abroad he learns that Madan had seized his business empire leaving there family penniless and he and his family is soon thrown on the streets which resulted in his own death and his small daughter's death. His wife is left in a state of shock. Years later Vishwanath son grows up to be Ajay Sharma but assumes the identity of Vicky Malhotra and befriends Chopra on a race track. Soon Chopra's two daughters falls deeply in love with Ajay but he has no love for either in his heart and will stop at nothing but the downfall of the entire Chopra family.
A vengeful young man marries the daughter of a corrupt industrialist in order to seek justice for his father's suicide.
