A spoof of the late 80s and early 90s suspense thrillers and murder mysteries, including Basic Instinct, Sleeping With The Enemy, Cape Fear and others. A cop/attorney (yes he's both) is seduced by a woman while his wife is having an affair with a mechanic. Lots of other sublots and visual gags in the style of Naked Gun. Check the rating !
Fatal Instinct is about a man named Ned Ravine who is both a police officer and a lawyer. He thinks he understands everything about every kind of woman to the point of throwing his badge aside if he is proved wrong. One day, during a stakeout, Ned meets a sultry and seductive young woman named Lola. She decides to show up at his office, asking him to look over some papers she found. At the same time, a mysterious and shifty man named Max Shady is released from prison and plans to kill Ned for not defending him in court. Surprisingly, Ned's wife is having an affair and plots to kill her husband so that she can collect his accident insurance, which is worth nine million dollars. Ned comes to Lola's house and examines the papers she gave him, only noticing that these papers are an expired lottery ticket and an old laundry receipt. After this happens, the two end up having sex with each other. The next day, Ned feels guilty for having sex with Lola, so he then tells her that he has a wife that he loves dearly, and that he can no longer have sex with each other again. A few days later, Lana and Frank take the same train Ned is in, plotting to kill him. Instead, Lana shoots and kills Max with a revolver, mistaking Max for Ned. Ned finds Lana and thinks that she had saved his life, so in order to help clear her charges, he arrest Lana and defends her in court. Ned then finds out that Lola and Lana were twin sisters, until Lola's face was smashed by Lola's shovel. Lola then had to get plastic surgery, which gave her a completely new face. Lana's main reason for ruining Lola's face was to take her life away from her by taking Lola's husband away from her, which ruined her marriage.
