Doug is a young man who works all day as a concierge at a luxurious hotel, saving money to make his own business. Unfortunately, when he finds the financial supporter he needs, he discovers that his "saviour" is having an affair with the woman he loves! Now, he must choose between money and love...
Doug Ireland is the concierge of a ritzy hotel in New York. He does what he has to to satisfy the hotel's guests, by getting them what they need; like jewelry, candy mints, and theatre tickets. He also tries to keep the manager from terminating Milton, the bellhop, who was been working at the hotel for more than half a century, who likes to think that the spirit of the hotel's founder is still around. Doug wants to open his own hotel on Roosevelt Island. Now he has saved every cent he could to get an option on an old hotel. Now he has a matter of weeks to develop the hotel or else he will lose it. But to do it he needs at least 3 million dollars and his best chance to get it is Christian Hanover. While Hanover considers Doug's proposal, he asks him to "take care" of his girlfriend, Andy, a girl whom Doug has the hots for but is constantly turned down when he asks her out, cause she doesn't want to be two timing her boyfriend, Hanover. Now Hanover is married but says that "he will divorce his wife and marry her". Doug doesn't exactly believe him but thinks that his hotel is more important and Andy can make her own decisions. But the more Doug spends with Andy, Doug is starting to wonder what is important.


Doug Ireland was a concierge in Bradbury hotel after graduated from University. His dream is to own his own hotel. He decided to earn more money and serve customers well. He was being liked by customers and bosses. One day, a client showed a lady (Andy-Gabrielle Anwar) to Doug , ask Doug to look after Andy as the client had wife and have to stay with wife.
Andy think that Doug was only for money and so ignore Doug herself. When leaving Andy, Doug found that he began to love Andy, and this time he must grab Andy back to himself.
One day, Andy found out that her boyfriend was trying to fraud and take all Doug's money, she ran to Doug and force Doug not to sign the contract.
Hotel and Andy, which would Doug select?
Finally ... both andy and doug...

