A young man is insanely obsessed over a college girl. This obsession causes the young man to take daring steps to prevent her from marrying her fiancé, a naval officer. When she finally does marry the naval officer, however, the young man's fury causes him to break all limits of decency.
The beautiful Kiran Awashti has plans to marry the brave, strong and powerful navy man, Sunil Malhotra. All is well in the beginning, as both dramatically begins to prepare for there marriage life, but an unknown caller, in the form and shape of Rahul Mehra begins to, both physically and mentally harass Kiran upturning the couple's life. Now Sunil has two options either leave Kiran to marry the obsessed Rahul or fight an unstoppable assassin.
Kiran Awasti has two admirers. One is the brave and daring navy man Sunil Malhotra, who loves her wholeheartedly; the other is the insane Rahul Mehra, who also loves her wholeheartedly. Both men will do anything to marry Kiran. The only difference between the two is that Rahul will kill anyone who gets in the way of his obsession. The only problem is that Kiran is engaged to Sunil, and Kiran has never met Rahul.
Sunil Malhotra is a brave naval officer who always fight for others' rights. He is in love with the beautiful Kiran Awasti and hopes to marry her soon, but the only problem in their lives is the occurrence of an unknown caller who claims that he is in love with Kiran. Many attempts both by Sunil and the police are made to trap this stalker, but they are all in vain. Now, both Sunil and Kiran's lives are in danger because the caller is an insane man who will do anything in his power to get what he wants.
A woman is caught between one man's love and another man's obsession. She fears one and fears for the other. One stands for love and the other for life. Who will she choose?


"Darr" is fear. And fear beats in every lover's heart. Fear that your love may not be reciprocated, fear that you lose the one you love, fear that your beloved could have a change of heart. In short, fear is the villain in every love story. But in "Darr" fear is the ultimate expression of passion, of obsession and of sacrifice. "Darr" is Rahul's story whose love and obsession for Kiran frees him from all fears of life and death. "Darr" is Sunil's story, whose enduring love and passion for Kiran gives him the courage to face the fear of death.
And finally "Darr" is Kiran's story, one who is caught between one man's love and another man's obsession. She fears one and fears for the other. One stands for love and the other for life.
In this battle between love and life, the supreme victor is Love, because Love always wins, in Life and in Death.


