When Simeon Lee, a mean-spirited, tyrannical patriarch of a dysfunctional family, summons his offspring to his country manor house in Kent for Christmas, he employs Poirot to attend the reunion. The detective is not given a full explanation for his assignment, but he soon observes the palpable animosity, suspicion, and resentment among the three Lee sons. Also in attendance is the beautiful Pilar Estravados, the only surviving child of Lee's daughter, who recently passed away after living in exile in Spain. The ruthless Senior Lee, who made his fortune in the South African diamond fields, sadistically treats his progeny with deliberate cruelty and obviously relishes pitting one against the other. It comes as no surprise when the old man's throat is mysteriously cut in an apparently locked room, and although he was frail and wheelchair-bound, there appears to be evidence of a great struggle. Poirot is aided in his quest for a solution to the baffling mystery by Chief Inspector Japp and local Superinendent Sugden.
Poirot had hoped for a quiet Christmas at home but two events put an end to that. The first is that the boiler in his apartment building breaks down and there is no chance of its repair until after the holiday. The second is a call from the wealthy Simeon Lee asking Poirot to come and stay at his estate as he feels his life is in danger. Lee had made his fortune in diamonds in South Africa and will be hosting a bevy of guests over the holidays. They include his three sons, including Harry Lee who hasn't been in England for may years and is the black sheep of the family and his granddaughter, Pilar. When Lee is found murdered in his study, Poirot rescues Inspector Japp from a Christmas with his in-laws and they investigate. Lee was universally disliked by all of his relatives but as our detectives learn, it is equally important to learn the identities of unknown relatives.
The tyrannical patriarch of a dysfunctional but wealthy family summons his adult children for a Christmas reunion, but prior to the holiday his throat is slashed apparently by one of them.
