It tells the story of two lovers, Prem (Salman Khan) and Nisha (Madhuri Dixit). Their older siblings, Rajesh and Pooja get married. After Pooja has her baby, the elders decide to get Prem married with a girl like Pooja. Prem and Nisha slowly fall in love with each other. Prem tells his sister-in-law, Nisha's older sister, Pooja, that he loves Nisha.Pooja binds the two with her blessings and a necklace. Before Pooja can tell anyone the good news, she falls down the stairs, and dies. Everyone feels they lost their life after Pooja dies, because she had a magic touch that even the dog, Tuffy, notices. Rajesh finds life hard without Pooja, and he finds it especially hard to raise their son. The parents decide to get Rajesh married to Nisha so that he won't feel so lonely, and his son will get a mother. Nisha unknowingly accepts because she thinks that she is going to marry Prem. When she finds out she is marrying Rajesh, the two lovers decide to sacrifice their love for Rejesh's happiness. The servant that Pooja treated like a brother prays to God to stop the wedding and have Prem and Nisha get married. The dog decides to do something and takes the necklace Pooja gave to Nisha to wear to her wedding with Prem. Nisha writes a note saying that she is giving Pooja's bind back to Prem. The dog takes the necklace and note and instead of giving it to Prem, he gives to Rajesh. Rajesh finds out that Nisha and Prem love each other, and steps aside so that his younger brother can marry Nisha. They live happily ever after.
Prem, a top student, is learning the ropes of business under his elder brother Rajesh and his uncle Kailashnath, a big industrialist. In another town, Nisha is studying computer science and is the darling of her elder sister, Pooja, and her parents, Professor Choudhry and Kamladevi. Fate brings the two families together and this results in the the betrothal of Rajesh and Pooja. At the wedding, Prem meets Nisha and falls in love with this carefree woman. With Pooja as the woman of the house, joy knows no bounds in Prem's family. Months pass by and Pooja becomes pregnant. Nisha is invited to come and stay with her sister and attend the traditional function before the child's birth. Nisha's arrival is like a dream come true for Prem. Nisha stays there until the birth of the child, taking over the household chores, and becoming very much a part of the family. In soft whispers, Prem and Nisha commit their love for each other and secretly dream of spending a lifetime together. Then fate strikes a cruel blow when Pooja dies after a sudden fall down a flight of stairs. Because of this tragedy, life in the house comes to a standstill. Rajesh worries about the future of his motherless child, and it causes his health to deteriorate. Nisha's father suggests that Nisha should get married to Rajesh and become the mother of Pooja's child. Prem and Nisha decide to sacrifice their love for the sake of the family. Fate intervenes once again when Rajesh comes to know the truth behind Prem and Nisha's sacrifice. Putting his child into Nisha's arms, Rajesh unites and blesses the two lovers, whose hearts long to belong together.
Rajesh runs the business for his dad, Kailashnath, and is an eligible bachelor. The family wants him to marry Pooja Choudhury, to which he agrees. With great gusto the families get together to plan the engagement and marriage ceremonies. At these ceremonies, Rajesh's younger brother, Prem meets Pooja's younger sister, Nisha, and after a few meetings both fall in love with each other. After a few months, Pooja gives birth to a baby, but unfortunately, dies shortly thereafter. Rajesh is devastated, and the families get together and decide that it will be in the best interests of both the child and Rajesh, if Nisha were to take Pooja's place and marry Rajesh. Hence the title, simply translated means: What Is My Relationship With You? No doubt this question will linger in the minds of both Nisha and Prem, who are all set to face a new relationship.
