Journalist Roma Singh is the daughter of a jailer. While taking a tour of the jail, she is molested by some of the inmates, and an inmate, Vishal Agnihotri comes to her assistance. She finds out that Vishal is in for four homicides, and decides to investigate further. She finds out, with the help of the owner of her publications, Jindal that Vishal was compelled to take the law in his own hands when the courts failed to punish the assailants of his sister and sweetheart. Soon, Vishal is released from prison, and begins to work for Jindal. It is then that he realizes that he has just walked from a walled prison, to an open prison, as the truth behind his release slowly but surely starts to dawn on him.
Tony gets addicted to drugs and this result in his fiancée, Rita being raped by four young guys. When this news reaches Rita's brother-in-law Vishaul, he took the help of the law but fails, frustrated at this act he decides to take the law into his own hands and is given death penalty, while in custody, he rescues a journalist, Roma who were taking a tour around the jail, befriends her and with the help of her boss Jinhal she finally gets Vishaul released. Here is where he became a cold-blooded murderer accepting contracts to kill from Jinhal, thinking that he is evading crime from the city but what he does not know is that he is merely a pawn in the hands of Jinhal.
Roma Singh is employed as a journalist at Samadhan and is the only daughter of a jailer. While taking a tour around her dad's jail she is molested by some inmates and a kind hearted inmate Vishaul Agnihotri comes to her rescue. She realizes that Vishaul is kind hearted and that the actual place for him is not jail and with this she decides to question him as to how he reaches the dungeon. As per her realization she does find out that Vishaul was compelled to take the law into his own hands as the law abiders fail to punish the four young guys who murder his girlfriend and her sister. Thus with the help of her publication Mr. Jindal she gets him free from the law. To return Mr. Jindal's favor Vishaul begins to work for him by killing smugglers and gangsters. But will this path of Vishaul help him remain out of prison or will it take him to the same prison Roma freed him from?
Vishal Agnihotri is imprisoned for four homicides but is soon released from jail as a result of an appeal made in a court of law by a journalist named Roma Singh and her boss, Mr. Jindal. To pay back Jindal's favor Vishaul is forced to work for Jindal in seeking revenge from Jindal's perpetrators. Soon Vishaul comes to know that he is only a pawn in Jindal's game plan and he himself is not what he claims to be.
