Young Frank and his pals get an idea for the ultimate in excitement. They decide to pool their savings, bicycle to the nearby Big City, and hire some woman of the streets to strip for them. Things do not work out that simply, but they do meet V, a Hooker With A Heart Of Gold, who ends up giving them a ride home. Soon she is living in Frank's treehouse, unbeknownst to Frank's widowed father Tom, who thinks she is one of Frank's teachers. Soon, however, the evil Waltzer comes looking for V.
Twelve year old Frank becomes friends with V, a sweet young woman, despite the fact that they live in very different worlds. She has been working as a prostitute and he is the son of a regular guy living in a nice suburban home. Frank offers her his tree house to stay for a while without his father's knowledge. She helps Frank with his schoolwork in a hilarious scene in which she acts as his assistant in a lesson on reproduction in the classroom. He draws ovaries on her midriff while the teacher tries keys to unlock the door. Frank would like V, the sweet young prostitute, to marry his father and become his stepmother. When his father, Tom, does meet V, he falls for her in a big way. And she is taken with him also. The romance progresses and he asks her to marry him. She says "Yes." But danger enters the picture when her "manager" tracks her down at the high school dance where she, Frank and Tom were having a good time. Frank perceives the threat and causes chaos by pulling the fire alarm to divert attention and makes off with V in her car accompanied by his pals. They are hotly pursued by Waltzer the pimp, a wild chase ensues and ends in a car crash at the train tracks. Everybody tumbles out of the car before it explodes. Waltzer gives up, assuming his money in the car has gone up in smoke. V reappears soon afterwards and saves Tom's house by paying off the mortgage. She had discovered a large sum of money in a backpack.Waltzer was looking for that money but would never find it now. She also bought the downtown ice cream parlor. Now she can be close to Tom and Frank but they can take their time and let the romance develop before rushing into marriage. The love is all around and makes this a sweet story.
