Furious that her late father only willed her his gloomy-looking mansion rather than his millions, Carrigan Crittenden is ready to burn the place to the ground when she discovers a map to a treasure hidden in the house. But when she enters the rickety mansion to seek her claim, she is frightened away by a wicked wave of ghosts. Determined to get her hands on this hidden fortune, she hires afterlife therapist Dr. James Harvey to exorcise the ghosts from the mansion. Harvey and his daughter Kat move in, and soon Kat meets Casper, the ghost of a young boy who's "the friendliest ghost you know." But not so friendly are Casper's uncles--Stretch, Fatso and Stinkie--who are determined to drive all "fleshies" away. Ultimately, it is up to Harvey and Kat to help the ghosts cross over to the other side.
Kat and her dad, Dr. Harvey head to a old house that is haunted by Ghosts. Dr. Harvey's job is to get the Ghosts out of the house so they can cross over to the other side. After they move in to the house, Kat meets a ghost named Casper who is in love with Kat. His one wish is to be human again and maybe he can win the girl.
Casper, a friendly ghost who lived in an abandon Haunted Mansion called Whipstaff Manor in Friendship Maine along with his three obnoxious, ghostly uncles: Stretch, Stinkie, and Fatso, has been hoping to find a friend for over 100 years. When a spoiled woman named Carrigan Crittenden is angry about her late father's will to Whipstaff, she soon discovers that there is treasure hidden inside the Mansion, so she along with her partner: Paul "Dibs" Plutzker, arrive at Whipstaff to seek it out. When Casper introduces himself to them, they are frighten by him and his uncles who scares them off leading Carrigan and Dibs to try several attempts to get them out of the house, but to no avail. Thanks to Casper, they hire Dr. James Harvey, a ghost therapist who contacts with the living dead and helps them crossover to the other dimension while trying to search for his deceased wife: Ameila. Once Harvey arrives to Whipstaff along with his daughter: Kathleen "Kat" Harvey, Casper develops a crush on Kat and tries to make friends with her and Harvey, but his uncles attempts to scare them away.
A young but lonely ghost boy name Casper has spend most of his years in the afterlife living in an old mansion called Whipstaff Manor with his three dastardly uncles, while hoping to find a friend. When a greedy woman hires a ghost therapist name James Harvey to remove the ghosts from of the mansion, just so she can collect the treasure contained in the mansion, Casper falls madly in love with the therapist's loner teenage daughter name Kat, who is also looking for a friend. Unfortunately, it creates a distance between them since Casper is a ghost, therefore, Kat can't be with a ghost. After regaining some of his old memories before he past away, Casper discovers the secret that would bring him back to life, so he and Kat seek out to find it.
A paranormal expert and his daughter bunk in an abandoned house populated by 3 mischievous ghosts and one friendly one.


Steven Spielberg produced this feature starring the friendly ghost created in 1940 by Joe Orolio. A greedy heiress inherits the haunted Whipstaff Manor and discovers that the house contains a treasure, which is guarded by three nasty ghosts. Ghost therapist Dr. James Harvey, and his daughter Kat, move into the mansion to get rid of the supernatural creatures. Kat makes friends with a ghost named Casper, the nephew of the 3 nasty ghosts.

