In 1993, the Search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence Project receives a transmission detailing an alien DNA structure, along with instructions on how to splice it with human DNA. The result is Sil, a sensual but deadly creature who can change from a beautiful woman to an armour-plated killing machine in the blink of an eye. Government agent Xavier Fitch assembles a team of scientists and mercenaries to locate and destroy Sil before she manages to find a mate and breed.
This is the story about a group of scientists who try to track down and trap a killer alien from n 1974, when the United States government relayed a message containing information about Earth and its inhabitants--including the DNA sequences that make up the human cell--to the rest of the galaxy. But now twenty years later, a reply finally arrives, containing a unique sequence of DNA--along with the friendly instruction to combine it with their own. A top secret experiment is undertaken and within weeks one of the injected human ova grows into a seemingly normal female child, called "Sil." It soon becomes apparent, however, that she possesses dangerous alien characteristics. "She" is part human, part alien, beautiful, strong, very dangerous and desperate to mate with a human being.
In 1974, an organization known as the Search of ExtraTerrestrial Instituion (SETI) has possessed some kind of alien being, thus beginning some kind of top secret experiment to mix human and alien DNA. This is when the scientists created Sil, a female human-alien hybrid. However, approximately 20 years later, she has escaped. Sil is also determined to reproduce, but needs human male sperm to do so. Now, a team of scientists and federal agents must find Sil and stop her from mating with a human male and reproduce.
S.E.T.I - Search for ExtraTerrestrial Intelligence - sends a message to outer space to whatever intelligent life form out there might be listening. Around twenty years later, S.E.T.I receives a message back from an unknown life source, giving S.E.T.I their version of the DNA structure and instructions on how to mix that life source's DNA with the DNA of the life on earth. The science team successfully creates a creature, a hybrid with both forms of DNA, in which they codename Sil. Due to some mistakes, however, the experiment had to be terminated. As they are gassing Sil with Cyanide poisoning while she helplessly panics inside a heptagonal glass casing, Sil who was then a young teenager breaks out of the lab and successfully manages to escape. Sil causes trouble, murdering innocent people, and then she sits in a cocoon on a train and erupts a fully grown woman. Sil might be incredibly gorgeous and very intelligent, but she proves to be extremely deadly. She is on a mission to try and mate with a human male, but the science team that is gathered has to quickly catch up to her and stop her, for if Sil manages to mate with a man, she could produce offspring that might destroy the entire human race!
A group of scientists try to track down and trap a killer alien seductress before she successfully mates with a human.
