An unknown and lethal virus has wiped out five billion people in 1996. Only 1% of the population has survived by the year 2035, and is forced to live underground. A convict (James Cole) reluctantly volunteers to be sent back in time to 1996 to gather information about the origin of the epidemic (who he's told was spread by a mysterious "Army of the Twelve Monkeys") and locate the virus before it mutates so that scientists can study it. Unfortunately Cole is mistakenly sent to 1990, six years earlier than expected, and is arrested and locked up in a mental institution, where he meets Dr. Kathryn Railly, a psychiatrist, and Jeffrey Goines, the insane son of a famous scientist and virus expert.
When Cole, a convict volunteer, is sent back in time to find information on a deadly virus that will destroy 5,000,000,000 members of the human race in 1996-1997, he mistakenly arrives in 1990. After explaining his plea to Dr. Kathryn Railly, he is placed in a mental institution. In 1996, he kidnaps Railly, using her to find the 12 Monkeys, a group of revolutionists that are planning to release the virus into select cities. But, he is wanted by the authorities for murder and kidnapping, plus he refuses to return to the future; he is in love with Railly.
Terry Gilliam's nightmarish low-tech/high-tech future vision takes place in 1997, after a deadly virus has killed 99% of the human population--forcing the survivors to flee beneath our planet's surface. This leaves the (other) animals topside, to rule the Earth once again. The scientists select James Cole, an imprisoned sociopath, to return to the past and gather information useful in the defense against this contagion. Once back in time, he is to investigate the mysterious 'Army of the Twelve Monkeys' and report his findings. Scientific, social, and political themes like time travel (and its inherent paradoxes and nested loops), mental illness, the nature of reality, animal rights, and the Armageddon-potential of unchecked technological advances are artfully and cleverly explored.
In a future world devastated by disease, a convict is sent back in time to gather information about the man-made virus that wiped out most of the human population on the planet.


The time is the indeterminate future. A virus, deliberately released in 1996 in multiple locations around the world, has killed off five billion people. Survivors have established an elaborate underground civilization because the earth's surface is considered uninhabitable by humans. From time to time prisoners "volunteer" to don protective gear and gather specimens of insects from the surface to test for the presence of the virus.
One such prisoner is James Cole, who after retrieving samples is given the chance to go back in time to 1996 and find information about the group believed responsible, known as "The Army of 12 Monkeys." Throughout the ensuing episodes, Cole finds himself remembering, as if in dreams, various things that he witnessed as a child, including the killing of a man in an airport. This persists as a theme throughout the film.
Miscalculation sends Cole to 1990, and he finds himself incarcerated in an insane asylum. His psychiatrist, Kathryn Railly, thinks she has met him before, but his ravings are incoherent (to her), and eventually he is locked up with other lunatics. There he meets Jeffrey Goines, who is definitely off the wall, but who tries to help him escape. Eventually, Cole is snatched back to his present time, interrogated, and given a second chance to complete his mission. A second miscalculation sends him to the battlefields of World War I, where he is wounded in the leg.
However much the result of miscalculation these visits are, they prove instrumental. When the scientists of Cole's present finally succeed in sending him to 1996, Cole kidnaps Dr. Railly and tries to convince her that he is from the future. He finds that Jeffrey Goines, whose father is a famous virologist, is now out of the asylum, working for his father, and has formed "The Army of 12 Monkeys." Cole is now racing against time, and after a few mishaps, finally decides that he wants to stay in 1996 with Dr. Railly, surrendering to the inevitable destruction of human life.
By this time, Dr. Railly has become convinced that somehow, Cole knows something--his predictions of the outcome of minor events is too uncanny. The discovery of a World War I bullet in Cole's leg forces her to check a photograph taken on the battlefield which, impossibly, shows Cole in the trenches. She becomes convinced that "The Army of 12 Monkeys" indeed poses a threat, and she persuades Cole to take up his cause again.
An essential element in the communication between Cole's past and present is a telephone number where he can leave a message for the scientists of his own present. When Goines and his "Army" release all the animals in the zoo to roam the streets of New York, and then posts flyers declaring "We did it!" Cole realizes that the "Army" is not the threat, and he leaves a phone message to that effect. Shortly after, Jose, a fellow "volunteer" from the present, approaches Cole with orders for him to complete his mission and hands him a revolver. Cole initially refuses, but then notices a guard from the present glaring at him. Jose makes it clear Dr Railly will be killed if Cole does not comply.
Meanwhile, the police are after Cole for kidnapping Dr. Railly. In an airport, while attempting with Cole to elude capture, Dr. Railly recognizes Dr Peters, a man who worked with Jeffrey Goines's father in the virology lab and "an apocalypse nut". She rushes to inform Cole of this and frantically identifies him, along with his travel plans, with Jose overhearing this. The man goes through airport screening and manages to persuade security that his biological samples--one for each of the many cities on his itinerary--are harmless. Dr. Railly alerts Cole, and they attempt to stop the man. To Dr. Railly's horror, Cole is shot by the police while chasing the real perpetrator, who escapes to board his plane. Cole's death is witnessed by a boy named James, who is with his parents: the young Cole.
On the plane, the escaped perp takes his seat and gets into conversation with his fellow passenger. We recognize her as the woman lead scientist from Cole's present. Cole had stated once the virus was located, a scientist would be sent back to study it in its original unmutated form, so that a cure could be developed in the present. She identifies herself as "Jones" and cryptically says she's "in insurance."

