A trilogy of stories set in the same house, but with different occupants and spanning over 40 years, deals with various women and moral crisis over unexpected pregnancies and their choice of abortion. In 1952, when abortion was illegal, a nurse deals with her unexpected pregnancy and takes drastic measures to get one. In 1974 a family housewife with four children discovers that she's pregnant and decides she can't handle another child to raise. In 1996, a pregnant college student decides on an abortion, but doesn't realize the means to go through to get one.
The movie examines the abortion issue through three stories set in different eras: 1952, 1974 and 1996.


Warning: some details may be disturbing.
If These Walls Could Talk is a made-for-HBO movie consisting of three segments, set in different time periods, with different characters--in the same house. Each segment focuses on a character facing an unexpected pregnancy, and how each character deals with the situation.
The opening credits show various clips of news reports, interviews, protests, rallies and newspaper headlines regarding abortion. We see picket signs and hear comments from both sides of the issue. We hear a news anchor announcing the Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion, amid clips of people cheering and a sign reading Thank You Supreme Court. We also see a few commercial clips from the 50s, just married couples, a few family shots, among others.
The first segment begins with a shot of the front of a house in the process of being painted, and the year 1952 is shown. Down the street, we see a nurse, Claire (Demi Moore) exiting a city bus, coming home from work after a night shift.
After she enters her home, we see various photos, giving us a silent introduction to her and her life: pictures of her and her husband, pictures of them with his family, their wedding picture, his military picture, and finally, an "in memory of" card with her husband's picture. Claire walks about, closing the drapes in the front windows. Next, we see her sitting in a chair, deep in thought and obviously distressed.
We then see Claire at work at the hospital, heading toward one of the doctors to speak to him in his office. Apparently he informed her of her pregnancy; she tells him she's been in shock since they spoke but that she's thought about it and knows what she needs to do--and needs his help and information.
The doctor replies that she's putting him in an awkward position; he's known her in-laws for a long time. She says that she's thinking of them too, as they're all the family she has. She then asks the doctor to prescribe something for her; "I know there are things I could take, I just don't know the dosages."
The doctor says he can't do that; it's illegal to terminate a pregnancy. He offers to give her the number of a home that can take care of the adoption and give her a place to stay. She says that's impossible, how can she go away for seven months? What would she tell everyone? The doctor says he doesn't know, and tells her one should think of that before one puts herself in this situation.
We then see Claire sitting at home reading books on pregnancy and looking for information on abortion. Next, we see her rummaging through her medicine cabinet, and finding a bottle of prescription medicine. She pops several pills into her mouth and chases them with a glass of hard liquor.
Afterwards, we see her vomiting in her bathroom, and we hear a knock at the door: Claires sister-in-law Becky. Claire grabs the pill bottle, wraps it in toilet paper and tosses it in the bathroom trash can.
Becky is in the kitchen, carrying a toddler and washing Claires dishes. Claire enters and says she doesn't have to do that. Becky, who we see is about 6 months pregnant, apologizes for waking Claire, and Claire says she's just sick. She says hi to the baby, and Becky tells Claire no offense, but it's probably contagious and she doesn't need a sick baby. Becky said her mom wanted her to bring her some chicken soup, a hot water bottle, and Becky brought her some magazines. Claire says that Becky's mom does too much for her. Becky says you know how she is but to let her help--that by doing for Claire, she feels that she hasn't completely lost Steven (Claire's late husband.)
Becky prepares to leave, and as Claire stands at her front door a mutual friend stops to speak to them. After Becky leaves, Claire calls Louise to come to the door. She does, and Claire says she has a friend with three kids at home, one in the hospital, and just found out she's pregnant and is overwhelmed. Claire asks if she knows anyone who can "do something." Louise says she doesn't, but figures she could ask around. She then says she's heard rumors about an old, big house in an area of abandoned houses--that her "friend" would have to be desperate. She suggests Claire ask at the hospital; someone there should know of a better place.
We see Claire enter the nurses lounge, and speak to Nurse Jenny Ford about a patient--then she tells her about "her friend who's pregnant" and that she can't have the baby. Nurse Jenny asks what she wants from her; Claire says she'd hoped they could help her, and she "heard theres someone in ER..." Nurse Jenny is obviously offended. Claire apologizes, that she didn't know who to ask and she knew Nurse Jenny worked there the longest. Nurse Jenny says she'd like to keep working there--2 nurses were recently dismissed. As they are leaving the break room, Claire asks what she should tell her friend, and Nurse Jenny says she doesn't know--but don't ask her anymore.
Next, Claire is in a cab looking for "the big house" Louise told her about. We see house after house, trashed and boarded up, and then the big house with a light on upstairs. Claire looks, and sees someone turn off the light--and is obviously turned off by the scene. The cab driver says he doesn't know what shes doing here, but he can wait (we get the sense he's taken women there before.) Claire says its OK, she made a mistake.
Then we see Claire about to go to her in-laws for Thanksgiving, pinning her too-tight skirt and trying to zip it. She gives up and wears her shirt untucked. We then see the family finishing dinner, Claire serving everyone pie, then saying she has to leave to work that night. Becky offers to take her home, but Claire says the kids are tired, she'll just walk. The family objects and says Kevin (Steven's young brother) will take her home. We see that he's not comfortable with the idea.
Before she leaves, Claire's mother-in-law says she's worried about her, and she's working too hard. Claire assures her she's fine. Mother-in-law says she doesn't want Claire to worry about money because they want to be able to take care of her--that they're still family.
As Kevin takes Claire home, we sense uneasiness between the two. At home, she thanks him and starts to get out, but he stops her--becoming emotional and apologizing. During the conversation, we see flashbacks of Kevin confronting Claire about her drinking, Claire becoming upset, Kevin comforting her and then the two beginning to kiss--showing how she got into her situation. She says it's not his fault, she knows he didn't mean to hurt her, but he has to forget about it--"It never happened."
Next, Claire is at work charting when Nurse Jenny hands her a piece of paper with a name and phone number, telling her to give Jenny's name. Claire thanks her, and we see that Nurse Jenny knows its Claire who wants the abortion.
Claire calls the woman, Audrey, telling her how she got her number and why she's calling. Audrey says it's a woman in Puerto Rico--and the place is clean, but it will cost about $1000. Claire becomes upset, saying she doesn't have that kind of money. Audrey says this is the only one she would trust; but, hearing Claire upset, tells her she'll try to find someone closer--but she can't promise anything.
We see Claire looking for and then finding a knitting needle, and then in her bathroom attempting to do the abortion herself. She injures herself; at that moment Becky knocks on the door and enters. She hears Claire sobbing, and finds her in the bathroom. She asks what's wrong, follows her to the bedroom and Claire reluctantly tells Becky she's pregnant. Becky assumes Claire was raped and asked who did this to her. Claire says she can't tell her, but confides that she was lonely, hurting, and didn't mean for it to happen--and that she's very sorry. Becky is shocked, saying her brother's been dead 6 months (as if Claire was supposed to be over it.) She says everyone knows us; you have to have this baby somewhere else. Claire says she can't have the baby, she needs an abortion. Becky asks how could she do this, then takes her child and before she leaves, says if her mother finds out it will kill her, so she doesn't give a damn what Claire does--and how dare Claire "shame us like this."
Later, Audrey calls Claire to tell her she found someone named Tom who "comes to your house." She said it seems safer, and Claire asks for his number. Audrey says "you can't call him, he'll call you" and needs Claire's name and work number. Claire asks why, and Audrey assures her he'll be discreet but he needs to be able to reach her, and says he wants $400.
We then see Claire at work, reacting to the nurse's station phone ringing when the call isn't for her. When Tom does call, he says he needs the $400 cash in full, asks for her address, tells her what items to have, and that he'll be there at 8:00 the next night. That night, Claire sits in her dining room, counting the money and waiting for Tom. He arrives, asks for the money, and she says he'll get it when its done. He turns to leave, saying he doesn't have time for games. She goes after him, saying come back, I'll give it to you, handing him the money.
They enter her house and then the kitchen. He tells her to take off her underwear, and lie down on the table. As she does, she sees him getting out his instruments. She asks if he's going to disinfect them, to which he says they're fine. She says she doesn't want an infection, and he asks do you want to do this or not? She says yes, and he says OK, lets do it--lie down. He inserts the speculum, and as he begins she yells out in pain. He tells her several times not to move, the more you move the more it'll hurt. She tries to be still but is obviously in pain. Finally he says alright, that's it. He wipes off and puts away his instruments, tells her she'll have some cramping and bleeding. He says if she starts to hemorrhage, call the hospital. She asks if she's OK, getting no answer and only hearing the kitchen door and then her front door slam. She lies on the table a moment, holding her stomach and still in discomfort.
Finally, we see Claire standing but hanging on to a kitchen counter, calling the hospital--"I need your help." Blood is all over the floor and between her legs. We hear the woman on the phone ask for her address. Claire becomes disoriented, falls to her knees and drops the phone. The woman on the phone says they can't send an ambulance without the address, and saying hello. The scene fades.
We see the front of the house again, the camera moving in on the upstairs window and back, with a different appearance of the house. A caption reads 1974.
In this segment, a new family lives in the house and there is no connection (other than the house) or mention of the previous characters. The segment begins with an early to mid 40-something woman (Sissy Spacek) at her kitchen table, writing, waiting for the toaster, and watching the clock. We see her children, two about middle-school age and two high-school age, getting up and ready for school. Then, we see Barbara (Spacek) on the phone asking about her pregnancy test results, and they tell her the test was positive.
As she hangs up, her kids come down to eat, and we see that Barbara is shocked but tries to control her emotions. The kids fuss and argue, and then the father comes home from a night shift job. He sees Barbara is upset, and she says they need to talk--later.
Barbara runs out the front door to her friend Julia, waiting to pick her up for her college class. Julia sees she's upset, asks what's wrong, and Barbara says she's pregnant--then urges Julia to "drive, drive."
Julia pulls over, despite Barbara's objection, and says they're going to talk. She asks if John knows; Barbara says no, she just found out. Julia says she knows it's a shock, and knows what she's going through. We find out Julia has had an abortion when Barbara simply asks, "Do you regret it?" Julia says no, even though her friends said she'd be depressed and feel guilty--she was "so relieved." She points out that not everybody's the same.
Barbara checks out Our Bodies, Ourselves in the library and then talks to her professor about the topic for her paper. She wants to find out how a woman writer, with children, has time to write and balance their lives. Her professor encourages her.
Later, we see Barbara reading about abortion in the book she checked out. We then hear her oldest daughter, Linda, behind her saying that's a good book. Barbara says casually, "oh, you've read it?" Linda says she owns it.
Barbara starts putting groceries away, and as Linda starts helping her, tells her she can "get one" at a health clinic. Mom pretends she doesn't know what she's talking about. Linda says "It's your legal right." When mom still plays ignorance, Linda says she saw her reading about abortion, then asks if she's going to get one. Mom says she's not ready to talk about it, but thanks her for the information.
Later that evening, from the kitchen, we hear oldest brother's band rehearsing in the garage. John comes down after sleeping, and after getting the kids out for a moment alone, Barbara tells him she's pregnant. John is surprised as well. They don't get much chance to talk with the kids arguing and some of them in/out of the kitchen.
We then see Barbara and John in their room, discussing the news. John expresses that "its done" and "we'll just have to figure it out." Barbara doesn't express the same sentiment, saying she thought she was through having kids and objecting to John's statement that her degree will have to wait and everyone else has to make sacrifices--him not getting to retire early, Linda not getting to go to the expensive school, instead going to state college. We see a shot of Linda overhearing, with a friend visiting, and slamming her door. John keeps asking what else she wants to do, what is she saying is the alternative? Barbara keeps saying she doesn't know. A look on John's face appears that he may be wondering if she's considering abortion, but it doesn't come up.
After John leaves for work, Linda races downstairs to tell mom shes not giving up going away to college "just because you guys screwed up." Mom says she doesn't want her to give that up, that nothing is decided yet, and she doesn't want everyone in the house to know about this until they've decided what to do. Linda, caught up in the women's lib movement in full swing at that time, sees the newly legalized abortion as a simple solution to mom's problem. She doesn't understand why mom isn't jumping at the opportunity. She tells mom to be a "martyr" but she's not going to pay for mom's mistakes.
Next, Barbara is telling Julia how Linda reacted, and Julia says her daughter calls her a martyr too. Barbara says "after all I do for her," listing a few. Julia says that's a martyr. Barbara disagrees, but Julia says to listen to herself--they're both one; and self sacrifice, unconditional love is BS. They expect gratitude for what they do.
Later, after Barbara reads a book on a past woman poet, she calls the local clinic to ask for information on abortion. Then, she enters her daughters' room while Linda is on the phone. Barbara tells her to get off the phone so they can talk. She tells Linda that she's still going away to college. Linda tells mom she doesn't think mom wants to have this baby, and asks if the baby would have a good life if the mother resents it being there. Mom says she's exaggerating how she feels, to which Linda says she doesn't think she knows how she feels. She says we know how dad feels, how Linda feels, but that mom isn't giving herself the right to her opinion. Mom says she has her opinions, but doesn't feel the need to shout it out to the whole world.
We then see Barbara telling her professor that she discovered all the women poets didn't balance anything--their lives were a mess. Her professor tells her don't give up, maybe you can make something of what you found. We then see her watching a group of college kids on the lawn, one strumming a guitar, as she's in thought.
Next, she's in the kitchen helping her youngest son with his homework, sees younger daughter and oldest son talking and not arguing, and Linda outside being kissed by a boyfriend--which brings a few tears to mom's eyes. John comes in to say good night, preparing to leave for work.
Finally, mom comes into Linda's room and tells her what she's decided--she's going to have the baby. Linda is obviously disappointed, and mom says it's the only decision she can live with. Linda gives a light smile and a "that's great--really." Mom says she knows everything seems simple when you're young. She then goes over to hug her daughter, and says not to worry, it's what she wants--it'll be OK. The camera moves away from them and the segment ends.
Once again we see a shot of the house front, camera moves in and back, the house's appearance again changed, and the year 1996 is shown.
This time, the house is occupied by several college students. We see them coming and going, music blaring, a yard sale next door, and a young girl (Anne Heche, "Christine") talking to a man (Craig T. Nelson) in a jeep. We learn that she's an architecture student and he's her professor. He's telling her she left so quickly she forgot her blueprints, and compliments her on her work. Chris smiles at him with the "school-girl crush" look, and he shatters her feelings by handing her an envelope with cash inside. He asks her what she expected, what did she think would happen--to which she replies, "That you cared--I expected that you cared about me." He says he does care, and then "I'm late, I have to go." Chris tells him sarcastically not to let her keep him.
She heads inside, past a guy who tells her there's a party that night. She says she never misses a party. We then see a TV with a talk show on, with arguing and words bleeped out--further illustrating how different times are compared to the first two segments. Chris' roommate, Patti, (Jada Pinkett) asks how the girl on TV talks to her mother like that, and cheers when a man in the audience says he wouldn't talk to his mother like that.
Christine comes in, and the girls are living in what appears to be the house's attic. It takes a moment for Patti to notice Chris, then she finally turns off the TV and tells Chris her mom called, telling her a few things Chris' mom said. Patti then says she went to a bookstore that day and found the best books on pregnancy, diet, etc. Chris gives a sarcastic "Yay," to which Patti asks what is wrong. Chris said that she'd just seen Jim, and that he basically said "See ya--wouldn't want to be ya," then gave her money. Patti says she'd really like to know what he thinks she's going to do with that. Chris asks what Patti thinks he expects, and then says maybe he's right.
Patti asks what Chris means by that, that Chris doesn't even believe in abortion. Chris says OK, shes a hypocrite and a coward, but she can't go through with this. Patti says so you've decided to kill your baby?? Chris asks why this is so important to her, to which Patti replies that this isn't--she is. They'd been friends 8 ½ years we hear, and Patti says "I know you--if you get this abortion, you won't be able to live with yourself. Please think about what you're doing." Chris replies, "Think about it? Im 10 weeks already! How long you want me to think?" Patti finally tells her if she gets an abortion, she's on her own, and walks away.
Next, Chris is riding her bike down a street and we hear a group of women praying the Hail Mary in front of an abortion clinic. Christine gets off her bike, starts toward the clinic, when one of the women stops her, asks her name, and says, "You're not going in there to get an abortion, are you?" The woman's daughter, Doreen, approaches carrying a baby and tells Chris to just hear her out a minute. She says she has four kids, and that she's not rich or a supermom, but she's grateful for God's gifts to her--her children. She says maybe you're not married, but your baby shouldn't have to pay for that. Chris tries to walk away, and Doreen tells her to just wait--when she has her baby and holds him/her in her arms, the love and maternal instinct just takes over. Then a clinic escort, Francis, approaches and asks what happens to the mothers who beat, abandon, or murder their kids because they didn't want them in the first place. Their maternal instinct just didn't click in like Doreen's. The protesters try to stop Chris, saying they can help her financially, but Chris continues inside.
Inside, Chris is given paperwork to fill out and read. We see her getting her vitals taken, blood drawn, and finally talking to a counselor, Marcia (Diana Scarwid) who says she's not clear if Chris wants to be there, or if someone's pressuring her. Chris replies that she wants to be there but doesn't, and is just confused. The counselor is understanding, and goes over options with her. Chris asks about the women outside saying they can help with expenses. The counselor says they have been able to help some women, with baby supplies and a place to live temporarily. The counselor asks if Chris has tried to talk to her parents; Chris says they're really strict Catholics; she's one of five kids and considered "the good kid." The counselor asks about the relationship that caused the pregnancy. Chris explains that situation, and goes on that it isn't fair that he gets to go about his life and she's there, making this decision. She then expresses concern about "the baby being ripped out of me" and asks if it can feel it, as she's been told. The counselor assures her that even though the people outside are saying that, she's asked this of the medical workers she trusts and that it is not true--a first trimester abortion is painless to the embryo. Chris says this is hard, and the counselor empathizes--and says she's there to help her be clear on her decision.
Outside, we see the women singing and Chris exiting, telling Francis she couldn't go through with it. Francis tells her it's OK, to take her time and think about it. The women tell Chris they'll pray for her, and Chris says she didn't do it. The women stand and join hands in a rejoicing prayer, and Doreen writes a number down for Chris to call them--which Chris snatches out of her hand. We see the clinic doctor (Cher) leaving and asking Doreen how her baby's doing, and Doreen's mother politely says "Good afternoon, Doctor."
We see Chris in the bathtub, talking to her mother on the phone. They have a decent conversation, but at one point it seems Chris wants to tell her she's pregnant--but then tells mom to go ahead and get her door, she'll talk to her later.
Later, Chris is walking about, a party at the house in full swing. She sees Patti, who looks away. Chris continues about, talking to a guy and obviously impaired. She finally heads upstairs, plops down, and is startled by Patti turning on a light. Chris says she noticed while in the bathtub she looks pregnant--that she looks pregnant because she chickened out, but she's going back tomorrow. Patti angrily asks why Chris is telling her this. Chris says to excuse her for being confused--she's not always right--she doesn't always have the right answer. Patti tells her that's BS, she knows what to do; she just wont accept it. Chris tells her that's right, that's right girlfriend--I'm so screwed! Chris gets up and sits in a chair, and starts crying. She tells Patti she made a mistake--one hell of a big mistake. She asks if her friend, her f'ing best friend, can forgive her for making a mistake; as she sobs heavily Patti keeps giving Chris a dirty look. Finally, Patti gets up, hands Chris a tissue and sits down to hug her. Chris asks if Patti could help her, if she can for once throw her morals away and help her. Patti tells her it's cool, she'll be there for her.
Patti and Chris pull up to the clinic, to the sound of sirens and a large crowd of protesters. Patti says this looks too intense and says maybe they should come back tomorrow. Chris says she can't, she just wants to get it over with. They make their way through the crowd, and the women who saw her the day before asks why she's back there, they talked about this yesterday. They try to no avail to stop her; Francis and another woman help Chris and Patti inside. A man yells to Chris that if she gets an abortion, she's still a mother--just a mother of a dead baby.
They make it inside, a couple is helped inside with the girl hysterical, and the staff is talking about how bad it is outside. As Chris is taken to a room for the abortion, we see Dr. Thompson trying to pull in and protesters surrounding her vehicle, yelling at her. Chris watches from a window inside. Marcia, the counselor, is there and tells her Dr. Thompson flies twice a week to a clinic that always has picketers. Dr. Thompson is later inside a room, taking off a bullet-proof vest, sitting and trying to gather her emotions before starting.
We see the outside/inside scenes back and forth; a group sitting singing "Jesus loves the little children," other people yelling, holding signs and picketing. A woman staff member says the people are crazy, to which Patti, behind her says they're not--that one man might be a little radical but their overall concept is right. The woman asks what she's doing in there.
We then see Dr. Thompson enter and introduce herself, listens to Christine's heart, and tells her to lie back. Chris tells her she's nervous, to which the doctor says its OK, it's perfectly normal. As Chris lies down, she asks the doctor with all she has to deal with, why does she still do this? The doctor says she remembers what it was like when it was illegal for women to make this decision and doesn't want to see those days come again--and when a woman tells her she doesn't know what she would have done without her help, she knows she's doing the right job. Dr. Thompson prepares to begin the procedure, and explains to Chris everything as she goes along.
We see Patti and the staff member talking again, and Shameeka asks Patti if she thinks the 12-year-old in there last week should've had the baby. Patti says she could've given it up for adoption, to which Shameeka says yeah, right girlfriend. She tells Patti she's living in a fantasy world, because she was just thinking what a "big demand" there was for black babies.
As Chris is prepped, the counselor talks to her, asking about school--we see the outside scenes still alternate with inside--and Marcia tells Chris she's going to hear a suction machine, which we then hear. Chris is silent, staring at the ceiling and crying softly.
We see Shameeka and Patti again; Shameeka says she sees this all the time--you people come in, get your abortion, and the next day back out there on the line. The clinic administrator passes, hears this, and reprimands Shameeka that this is inappropriate conversation in there. The administrator is then bumped into by a nervous young man who we saw earlier with his hysterical girlfriend. He apologizes, saying he was just looking for the restroom.
Back to Chris; the doctor tells her its almost over. We see a large swab covered in blood, which Chris sees and looks away with disgust. The doctor tells her it's all done, she came through like a trooper, and Chris sighs with relief.
Suddenly, the door bursts open, and there stands the young boy seen earlier. He aims a gun at the doctor, yells "Murderer!" and begins shooting at the doctor. Chris and Marcia scream, and a bloodied Dr. Thompson falls to the floor. The boy, aiming the gun at Chris, asks if he shot her; he didn't mean to. He puts the gun on the floor, again apologizing to Chris and saying he didn't mean to hurt her. He leaves the room; Marcia gets up from the floor, sounds an alarm and as she runs from the room, yells that the doctor's been shot.
Chris gets down from the table, down onto the floor, and helps a still (but barely) alive Dr. Thompson turn over. Dr. Thompson smiles lightly at Chris. The camera backs away, in a view from the ceiling, blood spreading about the floor. Chris cradles Dr. Thompson and yells "Somebody! Help!" The segment ends and credits roll in front of the 1996 view of the house.

