Batman and Robin are back working side-by-side to stop the villains of Gotham City, but is there tension appearing between them, especially when one villainess who calls herself Poison Ivy can make anyone fall in love with her...literally. Along with Poison Ivy, the icy Mr. Freeze is freezing anything which gets in his way from achieving his goal.
Mr. Freeze plans on taking Gotham City hostage by freezing the town into a permanent winter. In the meantime, a new seductive villainous, Poison Ivy, has appeared to cause a rift in the partnership of Batman & Robin. While all this is happening, faithful butler Alfred is dying. Mr. Freeze holds the key to save his life. Enter Batgirl to help save the day.
New troubles have arisen in Gotham City. First, there's a new super villain in town: Mr. Freeze, a former doctor whose blood is laced with cryogenic liquid, causing him to be cold in look and feeling who plans to freeze Gotham until he gets the money needed to finish finding the cure for a mysterious disease that has stricken his wife. Second, Poison Ivy, a villainess with luscious lips full of venom, has arrived in Gotham with her hulking servant, Bane, with plans to team up with Freeze and prepare the way for genetically enhanced plants. Third, Ivy has caused a rift between the partnership of the Dark Knight and the Boy Wonder. And finally, Alfred, Batman's trusted butler, has developed the same disease that Freeze's wife has. It is in this time of need that a new partner, Batgirl, steps forward to help the two rid the city of evil once more.
The 4th installment on the Batman franchise, this one centers around the villain Mr. Freeze who has gone evil because of the near death of his wife, Lady Fries. Also introducing Poison Ivy, the deadliest plant-lover in the world who will get pissed-off if you "fool with Mother Nature". Poison Ivy, whilst controlling the strong, buff villain Bane develops into Mr. Freeze's sidekick while ironically she only causes trouble between The Dark Knight himself and The Boy Wonder. The villains plot to freeze Gotham and to be the only remaining humans on the planet. But Batman and Robin must come together despite their differences and their butler Alfred's deadly illness that only Freeze has the cure for. They find help from heroine, Batgirl while they plan to defeat Freeze, Ivy, and Bane.
Batman & Robin try to keep their relationship together even as they must stop Mr. Freeze and Poison Ivy from freezing Gotham City.


New troubles have arisen in Gotham City. First, there's a new super villain in town: Mr. Freeze (
Arnold Schwarzenegger
), a former doctor whose blood is laced with cryogenic liquid, causing him to be cold in look and feeling who plans to freeze Gotham until he gets the money needed to finish finding the cure for a mysterious disease that has stricken his wife. Second, Poison Ivy (
Uma Thurman
), a villainess with luscious lips full of venom, has arrived in Gotham with her hulking servant, Bane, with plans to team up with Freeze and prepare the way for genetically enhanced plants. Third, Ivy has caused a rift between the partnership of the Dark Knight (
George Clooney
) and the Boy Wonder (
Chris O'Donnell
). And finally, Alfred (
Michael Gough
), Batman's trusted butler, has developed the same disease that Freeze's wife (
Vendela Kirsebom Thomessen
) has. It is in this time of need that a new partner, Batgirl (
Alicia Silverstone
), steps forward to help the two rid the city of evil once more.

