A mix of hip-hop and politics, after putting a hit out on himself Senator Bulworth becomes a MCing politician akin to a west African griot who isn't afraid to say anything he wants and can offend anyone he wants.
Senator Jay Bulworth is facing speculation-induced financial ruin, so he puts out a contract on his own life in order to collect a large, new insurance policy for his family. Living each moment on borrowed time, he suddenly begins spouting raw, unfiltered--and sometimes offensive in word but satirical in spirit -- thoughts to shocked audiences and handlers in the speech of hip-hop music and culture. His newfound uninhibitedness and new relationship with Nina carry him on a journey of political and spiritual renewal.
Bulworth is a Democratic Senator running for re-election in Calfornia in 1996. Depressed by cashing in on the right-wing trend in politics at the expense of his beliefs, he orders a hit on himself after having taken out a huge life-insurance policy. His imminent death allows him to speak out in a brutally honest manner that is true to his old liberal--and even socialist--beliefs. He does so in the form of hip-hop music, which he discovers after falling in love with a Black woman from South Central Los Angeles.
After taking out a massive life-insurance policy on himself and hiring a hit man, Democratic Sen. Bulworth decides to have some fun and tell the truth as he sees it in hip-hop rhythms and with lots of F-words. Then he decides he doesn't want to die and intermixes being late for campaign events, giving interviews that lambaste the right-wing media conspiracy for failing to promote "that's right, socialism," and chasing a skirt, with trying to fire the Mafia boss in charge of his murder, all the while proving that white guys can be cool, too, in a geeky sort of way, and even gangstas respect caring.
A suicidally disillusioned liberal politician puts a contract out on himself and takes the opportunity to be bluntly honest with his voters by affecting the rhythms and speech of hip-hop music and culture.
