Jaisingh lives in India with his son, Sahil, who dislikes his father. Things only get worse between father and son, when Jaisingh wants him to get married to Sheetal, a woman he has chosen to be his daughter-in-law. But Sahil wants to marry another girl by the name of Isha, and no amount of pressure can get him to change his mind. Finally, an argument ensues between the two, with Jaisingh getting killed. The Police are summoned, they arrest Sahil, try him in the Indian courts, convict him, but instead of giving him the death sentence, they put him in jail for life. A defiant Sahil, who still maintains his innocence, finds a way to escape, with the authorities hot on his tail, and leading this chase is a senior policeman by the name of Udham Singh, who has never been known to fail in his job of apprehending runaways and other criminals.
Sahil (Bobby Deol), the step-son of Governor Jaisingh Sinha (Raj Babbar) has an animosity towards his father. Besides, Gov. Sinha has some covert adversaries either in the family or among his associates. Sahil and his childhood companion Isha (Kajol) are in profound love for each other, while Sheetal (Manisha Koirala) has a secret yet fervid desire for Sahil. Gov. Sinha, considering Sheetal suitable for his son, announces Sahil's engagement with Sheetal on the occasion of Sahil's birthday party. This leads to a violent altercation between Sahil and Gov. Sinha in which the former, in a fit of rage, points a knife at Gov. Sinha while the guests watch. The next day, Gov. Sinha is found stabbed to death by a mysterious killer for which Sahil is framed and sent to jail for 14 years. However, Sahil escapes from jail. The case is brought under the legal charge of an unyielding and resolute police officer Udham Singh (Om Puri). The suspense persists until the real killer is identified.
Murders are taking place in the city with all the victims stabbed to death using dragger. The prime suspect is Sahil Sinha who is also convicted of the crime in court; but manages to escape from prison only to find that the investigating officer Udham Singh is stabbed with the same dragger and some important public personalities are injured and hospitalized. Then Mr. Ishwar Diwan is caught with the same dragger set that is used to commit the murders. Now the question remain is it Ishwar the culprit and if so how come Sahil were present at the scene of all the murders.
Honest, brave, handsome yet hot-headed Sahil Sinha attacks his father at a birthday party with a dagger but not with the intention of killing him. The next day he finds his father stabbed to death, and he is subsequently arrested and sentenced to 14 years imprisonment. But he planned a conspiracy while in jail and manages to escape. He goes out to find the real killer of his father but soon finds another murder on his head, the murder of Dr. Gandhi. The police especially inspector Udham Singh wants Sahil dead or alive. Will Sahil ever find the real killer of his father? Will he be able to solve a very long riddle?
After the death of her husband, Sharda gets married to Governor Jaisingh Sinha. Her eldest son, Sahil resents him, and at a birthday party in front of guests he threatens his stepfather with a knife. The next day he finds his father killed by the same knife, and he is arrested on the spot. In Court everyone of his father's associates, the family doctor, the lawyer, even his own mother testifies against him; he is found guilty and sentenced to 14 years in jail. After a few days in jail, he escapes and a manhunt for him takes place, led by rogue police inspector Udham Singh. One by one all of who had testified against Sahil are either hospitalized in serious conditions or dead like Dr. Gandhi. While trying to extract the truth from Mantri, Sahil finds out that Udham Singh has arrested the real killer, and got a confession out of him. Shortly thereafter, Sahil returns home and his mother forgives him. Then the nightmare re-opens when Udham Singh is stabbed, and no one knows who the real killer is.
Governor Jaisingh Sinha is murdered and the needle of suspicion points towards his estranged son, Sahil Sinha who must prove his innocence.
