Four high-tech industrial spies, Beaupre, Alice, Jernigan and Unger, steal a top-secret microchip, and, to fool customs, hide it in a remote-control toy car. Through a baggage mix-up at the airport, grumpy old Mrs.Hess gets the toy and gives it to her neighbor, 8-year-old Alex. Spies want to get the toy back before their clients get angry and decide to burglarize every house at Alex's street to find the chip. But Alex is prepared for their visit...
Peter Beaupre, Alice Ribbons, Burton Jernigan, and Earl Unger, after stealing a top secret computer chip hide the chip in a remote control car. After going through security at San Francisco International Airport, they grab Mrs. Hess's bag off the X-ray belt while Mrs. Hess grabs the bag containing the toy car. They then see that a flight to Chicago is showing "now boarding" on the monitors showing all the flights, so they decide to board that flight. When in Chicago the crooks ask the cab driver who drove Mrs. Hess home where her house is, and for a description, and the cab driver says that her house is the only house whose driveway was not shoveled. At Mrs. Hess's house that night, Alex Pruitt shovels snow on Mrs. Hess's driveway, and he gets the toy car as a thank-you gift. The crooks get there to see that every driveway has been shoveled. The next day, Alex, who is home sick from school, spots the crooks in one of the neighbors' houses, so he calls the police to report the burglary. By the time the police get there, the crooks are gone, and no tracks that anyone broke into the house are left. Therefore, Alex is accused of turning in a false police report. The next day the crooks are spotted in Mrs. Hess's house, so Alex calls the police again. Once again, the police find no evidence that the house was broken into, so the chief comes to speak to Alex about how serious it is to call the police. The next day, the burglars are spotted again, but this time Alex decides to attach the camcorder to the top of the toy car, and attempt to get footage of the burglars in action. After a fight with the burglars to gain the toy car, Alex sees that they took the tape, and he finds the chip hidden inside the car. He then reports the chip to the local Air Force recruiting office, who informs the FBI. The burglars, figuring that Alex has the car, approach the Pruitts' house, only to find booby traps. In the end, an FBI agent comes to the house, and Alex hands the chip to the FBI agent, and the crooks are all caught.
Peter Beaupre is the leader of a group of thieves who have stolen a valuable Air Force computer chip. When a bag mixup at the O'Hare Airport in Chicago causes Mrs. Hess, a grouchy old lady, to unknowingly take home the chip hidden inside of a toy remote control car, Beaupre and his followers Alice Ribbons, Earl Unger, and Burton Jernigan begin searching Mrs. Hess's neighborhood and breaking into houses searching for the chip. 8-year-old Alex Pruitt reports seeing Beaupre and his followers, but Alex's sister Molly, his brother Stan, and his parents Jack and Karen refuse to believe him. Beaupre and his followers figure out that the chip is in the Pruitt home, because Mrs. Hess has given the remote control car to Alex. Alex is left home alone with the chicken pox when Karen goes to work, Jack goes out of town on a business trip, and Molly and Stan go to school. When Beaupre and his followers break into the Pruitt house, Alex is ready with some of the most painful booby traps Beaupre and his gang will ever face.
Alex Pruitt is a young boy who is left home alone because he is ill. At this time, four terrorists working for a North Korean terrorist group are sent by their boss to obtain a top-secret microchip that can act as a cloaking device for a missile. They succeed in retrieving the chip and hide it in a remote controlled car, but due to a luggage mix up at the airport with an old woman, the car lands in the hands of Alex who lives down the street from her and gives to him for snow-shoveling her driveway. Alex finds out about the chip in the car, and that terrorists are looking for it. So he sets up traps in his home when his house was their target.
Alex Pruitt, a young boy of nine living in Chicago, fend off thieves who seek a top-secret chip in his toy car to support a North Korean terrorist organization's next deed.


Four internationally wanted criminals, named Peter Beaupre (Aleksander Krupa), Alice Ribbons (Rya Kihlstedt), Burton Jernigan (Lenny Von Dohlen) and Earl Unger (David Thornton) have stolen a valuable missile cloaking computer chip for a North Korean terrorist group. They put it inside a toy remote control car to sneak it past security. At San Francisco International Airport, however, Mrs. Hess (Marian Seldes) accidentally takes the bag with the remote control car in it. The thieves then come to Chicago and systematically search every house in Mrs. Hess's suburb to find the chip.
Eight-year-old Alex Pruit (Alex D. Linz) is then given the remote control car by Mrs. Hess for shoveling snow. He soon becomes ill with the chicken pox, and must stay home. While he is at home, he sees the thieves through his telescope and calls the police. The thieves leave by the time the police come. After Alex reports the thieves again, they still manage to get away, and the police still do not believe him. Alex then decides to take matters into his own hands. He mounts a camera on his remote control car and tries to film some footage of the thieves, who are now searching in a neighbor's house. He successfully films Beaupre, but the remote control car is discovered before it can get away and Alice takes the tape. Wondering what the thieves want with a remote control car, Alex opens it and discovers the stolen chip. Right away, he calls the suburb's Air Force Recruitment Center and informs them about the chip.
The thieves realize that Alex has the chip and go after him. They block off the road to the house, and Alice duct tapes Mrs. Hess to a porch chair in her garage and leaves the door open. By this point, Alex has armed the house with more violent booby traps. After several break-in attempts, they chase Alex. He runs to the attic and goes into the dumbwaiter down to the basement. He then runs outside and calls to Alice, Jernigan and Unger. They see him and notice a trampoline below them. Unger and Jernigan jump, but the trampoline gives way and they fall into a frozen pool. Alice then wriggles her way into the dumbwaiter chute, but falls down to the basement. Alex rescues Mrs. Hess. He is then cornered by Beaupre, but scares him off with a fake gun.
Meanwhile the FBI, which has also been tracking the chip, goes to Alex's school, after being tipped off by the Air Force. Alex's family brings the agents to their house, where the police arrest Jernigan, Unger and Ribbons. Beaupre, however, managed to escape and hides in the snow fort in the backyard. Alex's brother Stan's pet parrot drives the remote control car into the snow fort and threatens to light fireworks which are lined around the inside. Beaupre offers a cracker, but the parrot demands two. Since he only has one, the parrot then lights the fireworks, and escapes. Beaupre's cover is literally blown, and the police arrest him.
Alex and his family celebrate with their dad returning. Mrs. Hess, who befriends Alex after he rescues her, is there along with the FBI and police while the house is repaired. Alex gets a surprise: another remote control car. In the final scene, where the four thieves are having their mugshot photos taken, they are shown to have Alex's chicken pox.

