Russian mobster Terek Murad has declared open season on the Russian militia and the United States FBI over the shooting of his brother in a Moscow nightclub. He hires "The Jackal" -- an elusive, nasty assassin -- to kill FBI Director Donald Brown. Present at the shooting of Murad's brother were FBI Deputy Director Carter Preston and Major Valentina Koslova of the Russian militia. Nearly no one has ever seen The Jackal, save for Declan Mulqueen, an imprisoned IRA sniper. Upon learning that the Director Brown is a target, Preston and Koslova enlist the services of the reluctant Mulqueen to track down the Jackal before he can assassinate Brown.
The United States is trying to help the New Russia in its war against organized crime. Presently, they are after Terek Murad, a deadly crime boss. They get evidence against one of Murad's people who is also his brother for murder so they try to arrest him. But the man tries to kill Russian cop, Major Koslova so she kills him. Murad seeks revenge against the ones who killed his brother, FBI agent Carter Preston and Russian Major Valentina Koslova, and wanting to send a message to America about interfering in matters he believes are none of its concern. Thus, he hires "The Jackal," an international assassin, to kill a prominent American. The Jackal tells Murad to go into hiding till the job is done. When Preston and the Russian police learn that Murad has gone into hiding; they wonder why? So they grab Murad's man and under intense interrogation he mentions the Jackal. Preston knows about the assassin. Koslova confirms it because the Russians have used him. She also tells Preston that Murad's man had info on the Director of the FBI which makes Preston think, the Director is the target. So he informs the Director who chooses not alter his schedule or add security. He tells Preston to find him quietly. So Preston needs to find someone who's seen the Jackal and unfortunately there are not that many and most of the ones they know of are dead. There's a woman who knows him but she's vanished so he tries to enlist the help of a man who might know where she is, Declan Mulqueen, an imprisoned IRA sniper. Mulqueen refuses to help till he learns about the Jackal and tells them he knows who he is, so they let him help them. But finding the Jackal is not going to be easy.
An imprisoned IRA sniper is freed to help stop a brutal, seemingly "faceless" assassin from completing his next job.
