"Prequel" to the first From Dusk Till Dawn is set in Mexico in the early 1900's which begins with the escape of Johnny Madrid, a dangerous local outlaw, from the gallows who then kidnaps his hangman's beautiful daughter, Esmeralda, with a little help from Reece, a female outlaw from the U.S. With the hangman and a local posse on their trail, Johnny meets with his gang who all rob a stagecoach which contains American author Ambrose Bierce along with newlywed couple John and Mary Newlie. As night falls, all parties coincidently seek shelter in an isolated inn/whorehouse which is run by vampires led by the high priestess Quixtla who targets Esmeralda. Esmeralda is revealed to be the half-human, half-vampire princess Santanico Pandemonium, whom the vampires want as their heir in which all the humans must join forces if they are to survive the night from the vicious blood-suckers.
Set 100 years ago in Mexico, this horror/western is the story of the birth of the vampire princess Santanico Pandemonium.


NOTE: Sequel to 
From Dusk till Dawn II: Texas Blood Money
 (1999)
Prelude: "At the end of his life, Civil War hero and author Ambrose
Bierce (
The Devil's Dictionary
) disappeared into Mexico with the intention of joining Pancho Villa's
revolutionary forces. He was never heard from again."
It's Old Mexico. Ambrose Bierce [Michael Parks] is sitting outside a cantina drinking
tequilla and watching Paster Neely [Lennie Loftin] and his wife Mary [Rebecca Gayheart] dispense spiritual
forgiveness to those about to be hanged, one of whom is the outlaw Johnny
Madrid [Marco Leonardi]. Narrowly escaping his hanging (thanks to the knives in his boots),
Johnny escapes the Hangman [Temuera Morrison] but takes his daughter Esmeralda [Ara Celi] with him. They
ride off to meet up with Johnny's gang, with the Hangman and his crew in
hot pursuit. Also in pursuit of Johnny is the kid who shot the noose from
his neck. Meanwhile, Bierce, Neely, and Neely's wife take off in the
stagecoach for Tierra Nigra, Bierce to meet up with Pancho Villa, the
Neelys to bring Bibles to the children.
The kid turns out to be Catherine Reese [Jordana Spiro] who wants to become a famous
outlaw like Johnny Madrid. In exchange for becoming his apprentice, she
tells him that Ambrose Bierce is carrying something valuable (probably
gold) to Pancho Villa. Johnny and his gang catch up with the stagecoach
and overtake it. While rifling through the contents of the stagecoach,
they come upon a manuscript 
The Monk and the Hangman's Daughter
, but no
gold. The outlaws ride on, leaving Bierce and the Neelys with the
stagecoach. Johnny hangs Reese for having the wrong impression of him.
Esmeralda is sickened at the sight, rides off, and Johnny goes after her.
The rest of the gang ride on. The Hangman finds Reese just in time to cut
her down.
The stagecoach becomes stuck in the sand. Bierce and the Neelys go on
by foot, eventually coming to a seemingly abandoned inn "La Tetilla del
Diable: Open Dusk Till Dawn." But the inn isn't abandoned. It's run by
Razor Charlie [.Danny Trejo] and Lady Quintila [Sonia Braga]. Bierce orders tequilla, while the Neely's
take a room for the night. Eventually, other guests start arriving,
including Johnny and Esmeralda, the rest of Johnny's gang, the Hangman,
and the Fuller Brush Man. Neely tries to have sex with his wife but she
wants to sleep, so he finds entertainment elsewhere. Esmeralda, in the
meantime, is cornered by Quintila who lovingly licks the blood off
Esmeralda's wounds. It turns out that Esmeralda is really Quintila's
daughter, Satanika.
Neely, now a changed man, starts a fight in the bar, and the blood
bath begins. While Neely fights for Mary's honor, she tangoes with the
Fuller Brush Man, who is now a vampire. Soon everyone is either turned
into a vampire or slain. The only two to escape into the morning sun are
Ambrose Bierce and Johnny Madrid. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]

