This post-apocalyptic future story is based on the 8th century Saxon epic poem about the knight who battled a monster in a medieval castle. In this story, Beowulf is a wanderer who learns about a man-eating creature called Grendel which comes in the night to devour warriors trapped at the Outpost. The Outpost is ruled by Hrothgar. He has a daughter, whose husband may have been murdered by the Outpost's master of arms.
In a medieval land, a outpost is surrounded by a army so all those who lives in the outpost cannot leave alive as a flesh-eating creature called Grendel is killing off all those who live in the outpost. That is until the arrival of Beowulf, a mysterious mercenary who offers Hrothgar, the outpost's ruler, help to hunt Grendel and knows what has been happening in the outpost. Hrothgar, Roland, Master of Arms and Kyra, Hrothgar's daughter thinks Beowulf has been hired by the family of Kyra's murdered husband to avenge the death of their son. But Beowulf has dark secret, he can sense Grendel's presence in the outpost and he can heal his own wounds very quickly. Beowulf not only does battle with Grendel, he also fights Grendel's evil mother and reveals to Kyra, who has fallen in love with him, who he is.
In a castle somewhere in the future or the past, Evil itself has spread. The army has put up a ring of quarantine around the place, and nobody is allowed to leave the place alive. A strange man, Beowulf, arrives one day and offers his help. Since any man is helpful, he is allowed to hunt the threat, which comes at night in a shapeless blur with the sole intent to kill. But Beowulf also seems to have a dark secret: His fatal wounds heal quicker than small ones of others, and he is the first one ever to wound the beast. So, courage is building up in the rows of the few that might live to see another day.
A sci-fi update of the famous 6th Century poem. In a beseiged land, Beowulf must battle against the hideous creature Grendel and his vengeance seeking mother.
