When two pre-teens named Hallie & Annie meet through their summer camp, their two lives are rattled when they realize that they are identical twins. With parents, British mother aka famous dress designer Elizabeth & American father, a wine maker named Nick, living in two different sides of the universe, the girls decide to make an identity swap in hopes of spending time with their other parent. The girls later choose to aware their guardians of the swap while at a hotel in NYC, which late reunites the divorced pair and sends them back into remarriage with each other.
Hallie Parker and Annie James. They look exactly alike and are sisters. It would be awesome for you to be a twin, but what is it like being a twin without even knowing it? That's what it's like for these girls. Hallie is a cool, laid-back gal from California. Annie James is a proper rose from London. Annie has never met her father, and Hallie has never met her mother. When they get thrown into the Isolation Cabin, they uncover the mystery behind the ripped picture. They realize that they are twin sisters seperated at birth by their divorced parents, and they decide to switch places to meet the parent that they've never met. They also decide to get them back together. But then something awful happens that will wreck everything: their father is engaged to a beautiful, selfish witch who's only after their dad's money.
Summer camp in Maine, USA. Two young redheads, Hallie and Annie, coincidentally meet and discover that they look pretty (and) similar. Soon, their common history opens up when they are banned into the isolation cabin for unsocial behaviour. Being twin sisters, their parents separated them at birth and divorced also. So, Annie grew up in London, England, living with her mother Elizabeth, who is a wedding gown designer. Hallie lived with her father Nick, a vineyard-owner, in Napa Valley, California. Both sisters decide to switch sides, as Annie never had a father and Hallie never had a mother. All works well, until Nick decides to marry Meredith, a creepy but beautiful woman who is only after his money. Now, the girls decide to let the parents meet. Let the games begin.
Hallie Parker and Annie James are identical twins separated at a young age because of their parents' divorce. Unknowingly to their parents, the girls are sent to the same summer camp where they meet, discover the truth about themselves, and then plot with each other to switch places. Hallie meets her mother, and Annie meets her father for the first time in years. They then make a plan to set up their parents, which suddenly goes awry with an announcement from their father. The story goes through many different twists and turns, and is an amazing story from start to finish.
What if you spent your whole life wishing for something you didn't know you already had? Hallie Parker and Annie James are about to find out. Hallie is a cool girl from California. Annie is a fair rose from London. When the two accidentally meet at summer camp, they think they have nothing in common except...they're identical twins! Now they're up to their freckles in schemes and dreams to switch places, get their parents back together and have the family they've always wished for!
Identical twins, separated at birth and each raised by one of their biological parents, discover each other for the first time at summer camp and make a plan to bring their wayward parents back together.
