IMF agent Ethan Hunt has been sent on a mission to retrieve and destroy the supply of a genetically created disease called 'Chimera'. His mission is made impossible due to the fact that he is not the only person after samples of the disease. He must also contest with a gang of international terrorists headed by a turned bad former IMF agent who has already managed to steal the cure called 'Bellerophon' and now need 'Chimera' to complete their grand plan of infecting the whole world. In order to infiltrate and locate the terrorist group he relies on the help of an international thief Nyah of whom he quickly develops a love interest. Time is not only running out for Agent Hunt to find and destroy 'Chimera' before the terrorists get their hands on it, but he must also find 'Bellerophon' so as to save his love interest who has already become infected by the disease from a terrible and rapid death.
A scientist, who is a friend of IMF agent Ethan Hunt, who is in Sydney, wants him to escort him to Atlanta, which he does. While on the plane something bizarre happens and Ethan kills the scientist. It is then revealed that Ethan is not Ethan but someone posing as him. He and his cohorts jump out of the plane and then proceed to crash it into a mountain. The real Ethan is then summoned by his superior for a mission but before undertaking it he is instructed to recruit a woman named Nyah Hall, who is a thief to help them. He does and goes to meet his boss who tells him about his friend and the crash. He then tells him since Ethan was unavailable he sent another agent Sean Ambrose who like Ethan is a disguise expert. They then conclude that Ambrose was the one who crashed the plane and took what his friend was carrying, which he called Chimera. Ethan's mission is to get it back. He is then told that Nyah's Sean's old girlfriend and that he wants her back. Ethan is hesitant because it seems that the two of them have connected but is convinced that she is their best chance to find Ambrose, so he asks her and she agrees.
Pulled away from his vacation, IMF agent Ethan Hunt is given his latest assignment, where Ethan is assigned to recruit Nyah Nordoff-Hall, a beautiful thief and require her skills. After recruiting Nyah, Ethan's boss, Mission Commander Swanbeck gives Ethan the assignment. Renegade IMF agent Sean Ambrose, has killed a old friend of Ethan's, Russian scientist Dr. Nekhorvich, and has stolen "Chimera" a engineered virus and "Bellerophon" the cure, Dr. Nekhorvich create and was carrying to Atlanta, whilst accompanied by Sean who was disguised as Ethan. Ethan learns Nyah was Sean's former lover and has been really recruited to help Ethan track down Sean. After tracking down Sean, Ethan, Nyah, old friend and fellow IMF agent, computer expert Luthor Stickell and Australian helicopter pilot Billy Biard arrive in Sydney, Australia. Where Ethan's mission is to destroy the "Chimera" virus and recover the "Bellerophon" cure and stop Sean and a group of international terrorists from unleashing the "Chimera" virus and infecting the whole world and save Nyah who has been infected and find the cure, before she dies of a terrible death.
A secret agent is sent to Sydney, to find and destroy a genetically modified disease called "Chimera".


Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise), while vacationing, is alerted by the IMF that someone has used his identity to assist Russian bio-chemical expert Dr. Vladimir Nekhorvich (Rade Serbedzija) of Biocyte Pharmaceuticals to enter the United States, but purposely crashed the commercial airliner en route. Nekhorvich, an old friend of Ethan, had forewarned the IMF of his arrival, planning to deliver a new virus called Chimera and its cure, Bellerophon, both of which he was forced to develop by Biocyte, into the IMF's hands. With the crash of the plane, IMF is worried that the virus is out in the open, believing that rogue IMF agent Sean Ambrose (Dougray Scott) is behind the incident. IMF assigns Ethan to recover it. Ethan is told that he can use two members of his team to help him, but the third person to help him must be Nyah Nordoff-Hall (Thandie Newton), a professional thief presently operating in Seville, Spain as she will be able to get close to Ambrose, being an ex-girlfriend of his.
After recruiting Nyah, Ethan meets his team, computer expert Luther Stickell (Ving Rhames) and pilot Billy Baird (John Polson) in Sydney, Australia, where Biocyte laboratories are located along with Ambrose's headquarters. As Ethan and the others stake out Biocyte, Nyah gets close to Ambrose and begins to find any information related to the Chimera virus. At a horse racing event, Ambrose quietly meets with Biocyte's CEO, John C. McCloy (Brendan Gleeson), and shows him a video of the Chimera virus affecting one of Nekhorvich's colleagues taken from Biocyte, using the footage to force McCloy to cooperate with them. Nyah is able to steal the video footage long enough to transfer it to Ethan and his team, who learn that the Chimera virus has a 20-hour dormant period before it causes death through mass destruction of the victim's red blood cells. This is depicted through several increasingly graphic pictures, which show the victim dead after 37 hours. Bellerophon can only save the victim if used within the 20-hour window.
The IMF team kidnaps McCloy and learns that Nekhorvich had actually injected himself with Chimera, the only way he could smuggle the virus from Biocyte, and had all the known samples of Bellerophon, now presently in Ambrose's hands. Ambrose has blackmailed McCloy to sell him the virus for £37,000,000 and promising to return the samples of Bellerophon. Ethan's team plans to break into Biocyte and destroy the virus. Ambrose, posing as Ethan, tricks Nyah into revealing Ethan's plan. Ambrose secures Nyah and prepares to raid Biocyte himself to secure the virus. Ethan is able to destroy all but one sample of the virus before Ambrose interrupts him, and an ensuing firefight begins. Ethan learns that Ambrose is holding Nyah and stops firing, during which Ambrose orders Nyah to retrieve the last sample. When she does so, she injects herself with it, thus preventing Ambrose from simply killing her to get it. As Ambrose takes Nyah, Ethan escapes from the laboratory and starts a 20-hour countdown before the virus takes over Nyah's body.
Ambrose opts to let Nyah wander the streets of Sydney in a daze, and orders McCloy to effectively hand over enough control of Biocyte to make him the majority shareholder, or else Nyah's infection will cause a pandemic that will kill 17 million people in Australia alone; Ambrose's plan is to make a fortune when prices of Biocyte's stock skyrocket due to demand for Bellerophon. Ethan's team is able to locate and infiltrate the meeting, stealing the samples of Bellerophon while taking out many of Ambrose's men. Luther and Billy locate Nyah who has wandered to a cliff side, intent on killing herself to prevent Chimera from spreading. As the two IMF agents bring Nyah to Ethan, he and Ambrose engage in a fist fight and wilds out on Ambrose. With little time left on the 20-hour countdown, Ethan finally gains the upper hand over Ambrose and shoots him dead, and then Luther injects Nyah with Bellerophon. Ethan reports to IMF on the successful mission. IMF clears Nyah's criminal record, and allows Ethan to continue his vacation with her in Sydney.

