Lt. Commander Data was taking part in an operation the Federation has with a race known as the Son'a to observe another race known as the Ba'ku. They are wearing stealth suits so that the Ba'ku cannot see them. But suddenly, Data rips off his stealth suit, reveals himself and exposes everyone. Picard is them contacted by Admiral Dougherty who tells Picard that Data has to be stopped even if it means destroying him. Picard requests permission to try and stop him without doing that, he succeeds. He then tries to find out what happened to Data. That's when they discover a plot by the Son'a and the Federation to remove the Ba'ku from the planet because they want to tap the radiation being emitted by the nearby planet's rings which have regenerative properties. Picard then airs his objections to Dougherty who tells him that everything they are doing is within the Federation guidelines. That's when Picard steps down as Captain and decides to help the Ba'ku. Data, Crusher, Worf and Troi join him, while Riker and LaForge try to get the Federation to reconsider. When Ru'afo, the leader of the Son'a, learns of what Picard is doing, he decides to remove the Ba'ku even if it means eliminating them.
While on a mission to observe the peaceful Ba'ku race, Lt. Commander Data suddenly malfunctions, revealing himself and exposes a Starfleet task force assigned there. The immortal Ba'ku live in harmony with nature and reject advanced technology in their daily lives. Their planet and their culture is secretly researched by the Federation associated with an alien race called the Son'a. When the Son'a--and forces within Starfleet--attempt to take over the planet that has "magical" properties, it falls upon Captain Picard and the crew of the Enterprise-E to defend the Ba'ku as well as the very ideals upon which the Federation itself was founded.
Lt. Commander Data, on a mission to observe the Ba'ku race, suddenly behaves as if having to fear for his existence. The peaceful Ba'ku, whose planet offers regenerative radiation and therefore incredible lifespans, live in harmony with nature and reject any kind of technology. Their planet and their culture is researched by Starfleet and the associated Son'a - in secrecy. But the Son'a, lead by Ru'afo, intend to abduct the Ba'ku in order to take the planet for themselves and for the Starfleet officials who all would like to regenerate their bodies. But they did not think of the loyalty of Captain Picard and the crew of the Enterprise-E to the Prime Directive.
Engage! Captain Jean-Luc Picard and his Next Generation crew are back. From the beginning of the Federation, the Prime Directive was clear: no Starfleet expedition may interfere with the natural development of other civilizations. But now Picard is confronted with orders that undermine that decree. If he obeys, 600 peaceful residents of Ba'ku will be forcibly removed from their remarkable world, all for the reportedly greater good of millions who will benefit from the Ba'ku's Fountain of Youth-like powers. If he disobeys, he will risk his starship, his career, his life. But for Picard, there's really only one choice. He must rebel against Starfleet... and lead the insurrection to preserve Paradise.
When the crew of the Enterprise learn of a Federation conspiracy against the inhabitants of a unique planet, Captain Picard begins an open rebellion.
