In this feature-length twentieth anniversary special in the classic science fiction-fantasy series, someone uses a time scoop to lift all five incarnations of the heroic Time Lord known as the Doctor out of their respective time streams. The elderly, first Doctor is taken out of Wimbledon Garden. The Beatle-haired, Chaplainesque, second Doctor is removed from the grounds of UNIT H.Q.. The dashing, dandy, white-haired, James Bond-like third Doctor is scooped off of Earth in his Edwardian speedster car, Bessie. The curly-haired, tall, long-scarfed fourth Doctor is lifted out of a punt on the river Cambridge and trapped in a time vortex. And the youthful, striped-panted fifth Doctor must find all of his former selves and return them to their proper time streams, or face disintegration into the time vortex in which his fourth incarnation is trapped. Having abducted each of the Doctors, the mysterious agent responsible for this transgression of the First Law of Time, positions four of the Doctors, along with some of their companions and foes, inside the Death Zone on Gallifrey, home world of the Time Lords.
Whilst having a rest on the peaceful planet "The Eye of Orion", The Doctor, Tegan and Turlough learn that the previous incarnations of The Doctor are being abducted one by one from their time zones along with his former companions. The Doctors find themselves in "The Death Zone" a area on Gallifrey that is isolated due to a force field. The Doctors, Susan, Sarah, Brigadeer Lethbridge Stewart, Tegan and Turlough travel to a black tower in the heart of the Death Zone "The Tomb of Rassilon" where Rassilon, the greatest time lord is entombed. The Doctors and companions find themselves up against The Daleks, The Cybermen, The Yeti, a Raston Warrior Robot, phantoms from the past and The Master who have also been brought to the Death Zone to stop the Doctors and their companions from reaching "The Tomb of the Rassilon", for which, a secret lies in the Tomb of the Rassilon. Who has abducted The Doctors and their companions and brought them to The Death Zone? What is the secret in the Tomb of Rassilon? and why is the mysterious culprit after it? and who is the mysterious culprit who abducted the Doctor and his previous incarnations and his companions past and present? and will The five Doctors and companions past and present escape from The Death Zone?
The Doctor and his previous regenerative versions are abducted to an isolated area of his home planet as part of a renegade timelord's scheme.
