After the suicide of the teenager Allen Clark, his family decides to move from Chicago to the quiet Cradle Bay Island seeking a peaceful life for the siblings Steve and Lindsay Clark. When Steve joins the local high-school, the outcast Gavin Strick befriends Steve and introduces his also rejected friend Rachel Wagner to the newcomer. Gavin exposes to Steve in the refectory the punks, the nerds and the different tribes of the school and he defends the weird theory that a sinister force changes the behavior of the annoyingly perfect "Blue Ribbons", a group of good students that wear identical jackets and gather in the Yogurt Shoppe. Further he tells that he had witnessed the blue ribbon Andy Efkin killing their schoolmate Mary Jo that is missing and the local Officer Cox covering the murder. Steve does not believe on Gavin words, but when his friend is submitted to the treatment of Dr. Edgar Caldicott and immediately changes his behavior, joining the Blue Ribbons, Steve and Rachel decides to investigate the mystery discovering the dark secret of the perfect behavior.
A man moves to a new town and gets harassed by these annoyingly perfect "good kids". He makes friends with the local rejects, one of which is a conspiracy theorist, another who is an albino, and a third who soon becomes a romantic interest. Together they discover that the jocks are actually lobotomized zombies and that they're next in line.
When Steve Clark moves with his family to Cradle Bay and enrolls in the local high school, he's not sure where he fits in with the local high school crowds. He doesn't really fit in with the punkers, the nerds, the hot-rodders, or any of the other diverse groups you would expect to find in a typical American high school. Actually, Steve looks more like one of the jocks, but they don't seem quite right either. In fact, the jock crowd seems perfect with their matching varsity jackets, perfect hair cuts, politically-correct charity work, and all-around perfect behavior that would make any mom and pop proud. When Steve befriends two of the less desirable social misfits at school, Gavin Strick and Rachel Wagner, he soon discovers why the jocks' perfect behavior is so disturbing.
The new kid in town stumbles across something sinister about the town's method of transforming its unruly teens into upstanding citizens.


Steve Clark (James Marsden) is a high school senior whose family moves to Cradle Bay, a picturesque coastal town. Steve soon befriends three outcast students, Gavin Strick (Nick Stahl), U.V. (Chad E. Donella), and Rachel Wagner (Katie Holmes).
Gavin tries to tell Steve that he believes there is something evil about the "Blue Ribbons"students taking part in a program led by the school psychologist, Dr. Caldicott (Bruce Greenwood). Steve is understandably skeptical. The following day at lunch, Gavin walks in looking like a Blue Ribbon. When Steve tries to confront Gavin, he gets punched in the stomach for his impertinence. Now Steve and Rachel must try and save the rest of the school before it's too late. They find a disc that Gavin hid for them in the boiler room, before his "transformation," which tells them about the club.
During this, Steve also befriends Dorian, the school janitor, who appears to be mentally handicapped and hunts rats for the city. Dorian demonstrates a device which emits a soft, high pitched whine that is supposed to be innocuous buts annoying to rats, which is an abysmal failure. Steve discovers that Dorian is actually highly intelligent, and carries high classical literature pieces with him, and that he's hiding because he wishes to be left alone. During an encounter where a Blue Ribbon assualts Dorian, the rat device goes off, and immediately sends the student into a psychotic fit, driving him away.
They try and find out what has been happening to these kids, which leads them to a mental hospital called Bishop Flats. They learn that this mind control used to make depressed and awkward teens become perfect so they can function properly in life, but the programming has some glitches that lead to momentary relapses. Also at Bishop Flats, they find Caldicott's daughter, Betty (Julie Patzwald), who spends her time repeating the same phrase: "Meet the musical little creatures that hide among the flowers".
When Rachel and Steve return, they plan to get out of town along with Steve's little sister, Lindsay (Katharine Isabelle), but when they get back, Steve's parents (Terry David Mulligan and Susan Hogan) reveal they had him signed up for the program. Steve and Lindsay try to get out but they get ambushed by a group of blue ribbons waiting for them. They drag Steve and Rachel to the programming center, but Steve escapes and rescues Rachel. They try to get out of town again with Lindsay and U.V., but the Blue Ribbons and Caldicott are waiting for them near the ferry out of town. When hope seems lost, the janitor of the school drives up, his car hooked up with sonic devices that scramble the mind control tech inside the blue ribbons' heads. They chase after him and try to destroy the devices, but, having been fatally wounded by Caldicott, he drives off a cliff with the blue ribbons on it. This leads to a final battle between Steve and Caldicott, which Steve wins by kicking Caldicott off the cliff. Steve and Rachel then leave town.
The final scene shows a classroom in an urban high school with kids playing loud music, cursing, and acting up. They are informed that they have a new teacher. The well-kept sub turns around, and it's Gavin, with the blue ribbon "twinkle" still active in his eye.


