Vikram Mayur, a wealthy Indian, born and raised in England, returns to his ancestral home in Bombay, India to look up his late brother's eight-year-old son Nandu raised by his caring aunt Bijuriya in which Vikram is torn between choosing to take Nandu back to England to learn his family's business, or risk throwing it all way by staying in India to be with Bijuriya whom he slowly falls in love with.
London-based Gopal Mayur and his second son, Vikram are focused on amazing wealth and fortune, naive and simple-minded Hariya or Hari is focused on simply finding ways to spend money, if possible as quickly as his dad and brother amass it. The family decides the to best way to deal with this situation is to get Hari married. In retaliation Hari takes a plane and flies away. The plane crashes, and everyone thinks that Hari has perished. But Hari has survived on a coast in India, and is looked after by Katariya. Hari falls in love with Katariya, and as a result both get married. Hari is determined to keep this a secret from the rest of the Mayur family at all costs. Katariya gets pregnant and there are complications. On the same day, Hari gets third-degree burns during a fireworks mishap during Diwali. Both pass away in hospital, leaving the child in care of Bijuriya, Katariya's younger sister, who is a mere child herself. Bijuriya undertakes to look after Nandlal. Years later Vikram gets an international award, and his photographs are shown in magazines all over the world; Bijuriya is a bar dancer; and Nandlal polishes shoes, delivers cigarettes and alcohol. Madadgar, a lawyer by profession, after viewing the magazine photos of Vikram, decides to put forward Nandlal's inheritance to the Mayur family. Vikram comes to India to investigate this claim, and is convinced that Nandlal is indeed his nephew, however, Bijuriya will not go of Nandlal; and Nandlal himself will not accompany his uncle to London, until Bijuriya is married and settled. The problem is that no one is coming forward to marry Bijuriya because of her profession. Losing his patience, Vikram plots to take Nandlal with him, regardless of the consequences.
