Things are not nice for both Rahul and Anu Verghese; with Rahul having a stressful family life to deal with and Anu; often being ill-treated by her hostel supervisor Arnie Campbell which makes her run away time and again. Both meet with each other and fall in love only to get married; but even after marriage things once again turn sour which eventually made the couple split up.
Rahul and Anu Verghese meet on the same day, while both are held by the police on charges of creating a disturbance, and running away respectively. Rahul is angry with his dad for marrying a second time, while his first wife is still alive; and Anu ran away from an oppressive girls' hostel run by Arnie Campbell. They meet again, and love happens. Rahul helps Anu to be independent, and seek a job. Then Anu is discovered by a talent agent to be a model, which she accepts. Rahul wants to marry Anu, but first must establish himself. He does establish himself as a singer, but is under the impression that Anu helped him with his career, his ego is hurt, and he is resentful against Anu. Anu then decides to better her career she must re-locate to Paris, France. Is this how their love will end?
Rahul Roy meets Anu Verghese and falls head over heels in love with her. The only problem is that Anu stays in an orphanage run by Arnie Campbell and he consider the orphanage as a holy place so romance is not allow there, in fact Arnie has other plans for Anu. While dancing in a party the police intervene between Rahul and Anu and both is forced to elope, but is later caught and Anu must undergo punishment, wherein she must leave the orphanage and stay with her alcoholic uncle, Peter. But Palu, Rahul's friend provide the right amount to Peter and he finally let go of her. Anu decides she must be independent. Watch as Anu becomes a famous model and Rahul a famous singer and how this will create a great distance between the couple.
Rahul and Anu fall in love with each other, but before they unite, they have their own problems to deal with.
