Rohan is a jobless graduate living in the Delhi-based Khanna family with his widowed mother and grandfather. His father Balraj was killed in an accident many years ago. Rohan leaves Delhi for USA at the request of his friend to improve his life. Upon arrival in New York he finds shelter with Iqbal and Sardar. Rohan becomes a taxi-driver. One of his rides is a young woman named Pooja who has no one to call her own. He brings her to his home, and Pooja falls in love with Rohan but Rohan wants to make money and hence wants to marry a richer girl like Loveleen a spoiled rich girl, whom Rohan decides marry. When his friends oppose his decision, Rohan leaves their home, decides to live with Pooja - and a life full of uncertainties.
Rohan Khanna (Akshaye Khanna) leaves India and comes to America for a better life. He meets with Pooja Walia and rooms with Iqbal, Chaurasia, and Sader (Jaspal Bhatti, Satish Kaushik, and Kader Khan respectively). He comes to know that there are thousands of people who had originated from India years ago, but are still struggling for a living. He does not want to be one, he wants to get rich quickly. He meets a rich and attractive woman, Loveleen (Suman Rangananthan), and she also takes an interest in him. Rohan is not aware that Pooja Walia loves him. When Loveleen rejects him finally, Rohan comes to appreciate his middle-class friends and Pooja. Pooja even gets him a job with her uncle, Balraj Khanna. Balraj Khanna would like to get his son married to Pooja, but after he meets with Rohan he starts to get different ideas.
Rohan Khanna is a jobless graduate living in Delhi with his widowed mother and grandfather. His father Balraj Khanna had perished in an accident many years ago. A USA-returned friend coaxes Rohan to fly to USA and search for a lucrative job there. So Rohan leaves for New York. In New York he finds shelter with Iqbal and Sardar. Rohan becomes a cabbie to earn a living. During one of his trips he meets Pooja who has been abandoned by her brother and brings her to his home. Pooja falls in love with Rohan but Rohan wants to make money and hence wants to marry a rich NRI (Non-Resident Indian) girl and secure American citizenship. Opportunity arrives in the form of Loveleen, a spoilt rich girl, whom Rohan decides to woo and marry. When his friends oppose his decision, Rohan leaves their home. Later, it turns out that Rohan's father Balraj wasn't dead but ran away to USA and became very rich. Will Rohan ever realize his futile ambitions and return to Pooja? Will Pooja forgive him? Will Rohan forgive his father when they come face to face?
Rohan is a jobless graduate living in the Delhi-based Khanna family with his widowed mother and grandfather. His father Balraj was killed in an accident many years ago. Rohan leaves Delhi for USA at the request of his friend to improve his life. He meets with Pooja Walia (Aishwarya Rai) and rooms with Iqbal, Chaurasia, and Sardar (Jaspal Bhatti, Satish Kaushik, and Kader Khan respectively). However, life in America is not what he expected. Without a stable job, Rohan is forced to reside with Indian cab drivers who take him in as a member of their family. The plot thickens when Rohan meets Pooja, a stunning Indian girl who is in the same predicament as he is and Loveleen, a spoiled rich kid with money to throw at Rohan's direction. Will Rohan be able to fulfill his lifelong dreams in America?
Rohan Khanna, an unemployed yet highly educated Indian, leaves India at the advice of his NRI friend in New York. Much to his chagrin, however, life in America is not what he expected. Without a stable job, Rohan is forced to reside with Indian cab drivers who take him in as a member of the family. The plot thickens when Rohan meets Pooja, a drop dead gorgeous Indian girl who is in the same predicament as he is and Loveleen, a spoiled rich kid with money to throw at Rohan's direction. Will Rohan be able to fulfill his lifelong dreams in America?
Rohan Khanna leaves India hoping for a better life in America.
