Scientist Sanjay Mehra devises a computer that is capable of contacting aliens. His happiness is cut short when the scientists at a space-research center scoff at him and refuse to believe his claims. While returning home with his pregnant wife, he glimpses an alien spaceship, and, in the resulting confusion, he cannot control his car, leading to a crash. His wife survives but their unborn child suffers brain damage. Years later, their son Rohit Mehra has grown up but has thinking capacity of a child. He befriends the town Mayor's daughter Nisha, which angers Nisha's suitor Raj, a spoiled brat. One day, Rohit and Nisha find Rohit's father's computer in his shed and follow the instructions provided. That very evening, their town is paid a visit by an alien spaceship that lands someplace nearby and takes off shortly afterward. But when the police inspect the footprints, they discover that one of the aliens has been left behind. Then Rohit and Nisha find the alien, name him Jadoo, and watch as their lives slide into virtual chaos.
Scientist Sanjay Mehra is able to communicate with aliens beyond planet earth using various computing devices. He goes to the space center to browse this news to his colleagues who refuses to believe him; on his way home with his pregnant wife Sonia; the car they are traveling in meets with an accident killing Sanjay. Shortly after Sonia gives birth to a baby boy, Rohit who is mentally affected as a result of the accident. Rohit grows up physically but mentally have thinking of a child. This affect his performance both in the outer world and at school; one day a space-ship with some aliens from another planet land in the vicinity leaving one of the aliens behind. Fortunately for Rohit the alien ended up being his companion who completely transform his mental condition to that of being a normal man.
Sanjay Mehra and his wife Sonia live a middle-class life. Sanjay's passion is studying the heavenly bodies through various computers, telescopes, and communicators as he believes there is life beyond Earth. He continuously transmits the sound generated by the syllable "Om" and hopes that someone somewhere will hear this signal and respond to it. One day, he does get a response, and he hurries to share this with experts--only to be scoffed at. Humiliated at this, he returns home and that is when an earthquake occurs, destroying the house with all the equipment, seriously injuring a pregnant Sonia, and killing Sanjay. Because of to her injuries, Sonia is able to deliver a baby boy, albeit with serious mental disabilities, whom she names Rohit. The child does survive and grow up - only physically, as mentally he is a mere child. Complications arise when Rohit is taunted and made fun of in school. Is Rohit making all this up with an overly active childish imagination (for who can believe a mentally challenged individual having hallucinations about aliens and spaceships?) or is he really hiding an extra-terrestrial?
A developmentally disabled young man tries to continue the work his father did in communicating with extra-terrestrials from outer space, which leads to something miraculous and wonderful.
