Raj, Pooja and Tina are childhood friends. While Raj has always been attracted to the vivacious Tina, he is completely unaware of the quiet Pooja's feelings for him. When Raj's family move to England to get involved in an internet business, Raj promises Tina that he will keep in touch with her and that their friendship will always be forever. However Tina disregards him and chooses not to respond to his first e-mail, in turn Pooja decides to keep in touch with him but signs under Tina's name. Fifteen years later, and their friendship has blossomed via e-mail, Raj believing that he's getting to know Tina when it's really Pooja. His family decides to go back on a holiday to India for 2 weeks, when Tina discovers the truth about Pooja's e-mails, they decide together that Tina will play along with the charade. When Raj arrives in India, he is struck by Tina's beauty but equally as struck to Pooja's personality. On a coincidence Raj eventually realizes that he had been corresponding with Pooja, and he realizes that Pooja is his true love which forces Tina and her family to accept the fact that Raj and Pooja are suitable for each other and that the two should get marry under any circumstances.
Pooja Sahani, Tina Kapoor and Raj Khanna are childhood inseparable friends who live in Simla, India. Raj loves Tina silently but prefer wait on the right moment to express his love. When Raj migrates to Great Britain he promises Tina that he will keep in contact with her via electronic mail; but Tina is least interested in the technologies world and instead asks Pooja to respond to Raj. When Raj returns to India years later all is reveal to him and the situations changes the lives of the three friends especially when Raj finds out that Pooja is the one who loves him and Tina is a different person all together.
Raj has always had a unrequited childhood crush on a friend named Tina, but Tina's best friend Pooja has always had a crush on Raj. When Raj's family move to England to get involved in an internet business, Raj promises Tina that he will keep in touch with her and that their friendship will always be forever. However Tina disregards him and chooses not to respond to his first e-mail, in turn Pooja decides to keep in touch with him but signs under Tina's name. Fifteen years later, and their friendship has blossomed via e-mail, Raj believing that he's getting to know Tina when it's really Pooja. His family decides to go back on a holiday to India for 2 weeks, when Tina discovers the truth about Pooja's e-mails, they decide together that Tina will play along with the charade. When Raj arrives in India, he is struck by Tina's beauty but equally as struck to Pooja's personality. Who will he choose?
Three childhood friends namely Raj Khanna, Tina Kapoor, and Pooja Sahani live in beautiful Simla, India together with their respective families. One day Raj's dad decides to relocate to Great Britain with his wife. Raj wants to stay in touch with Tina, but Tina has her mind somewhere else but reluctantly agrees. When Raj starts corresponding, initially by snail mail, and then subsequently by electronic mail, Tina asks Pooja to respond; and Pooja does so. Fifteen years go by, and Raj decides to come to Simla for a visit and see how Tina has turned out to be. He is already in love with Tina without even seeing her. When he arrives, he instantly falls for Tina, and eventually proposes marriage to her, which she accepts. Their parents rejoice, and both Tina and Raj get engaged. Raj returns to Great Britain. Pooja too goes there, and both meet. Raj eventually realizes that he had been corresponding with Pooja, and he realizes that Pooja is his true love. Pooja also confesses her true feelings for Raj. Both decide to return to Simla and tell Tina and her family this news. Unfortunately, when they return to Simla, circumstances force them to keep their silence, and Raj stays engaged to Tina, but encourages a heart-broken Pooja to find another life-partner.


Raj, Pooja and Tina are childhood friends. While Raj has always been attracted to the vivacious Tina, he is completely unaware of the quiet Pooja's feelings for him.
Raj's father decides to move to England with his family to take up a new job, so Raj has to go away from his friends. He makes Tina promise to write to him via e-mail. But Tina soon becomes occupied with other things, so it's the loyal Pooja who writes to Raj; but she always signs with Tina's name to help Tina keep her promise. Raj and Pooja have many things in common, and their e-mails bring them very close to each other. After several years, Raj returns to India for a short vacation. By now, he's in love with the girl he has been writing to, and believes he can recognise her at first sight.
When the three of them finally meet, Raj, to Pooja's disappointment, completely ignores her and is besotted with Tina, who is as vivacious as ever. However, during the two weeks of his vacation, he cannot help but notice that the real Tina is completely different from the Tina he knew from the e-mails. He also starts to like Pooja, without realising she is the one he is really in love with.
He returns to London, where Pooja coincidentally arrives for an interview, and there he discovers that it was Pooja who wrote all the letters. They confess their love for each other and decide to get married, but fate plays an unexpected trick on them. Back in India, Tina's father has died, leaving Tina all alone in the world. By now, she is in love with Raj as well.
Pooja now refuses to marry Raj, since she does not want to break Tina's heart. Raj is the only one Tina has left now. Raj's parents also agree to the marriage, but Raj wants to tell them that he really loves Pooja. Pooja however, still refuses to marry Raj and so he angrily vows to her that he will only marry Tina if she (Pooja) marries someone else on the same day.
Enter a friend of Raj's, Rohan Verma. Rohan is greatly attracted to Pooja and the families are all for the match. Pooja bows to the inevitable and agrees to marry Rohan on the same day as Raj and Tina. That way, she hopes to satisfy Raj's condition and ensure Tina's happiness. Rohan realises something is wrong and that Pooja does not love him, but keeps up the charade nevertheless. On the day of the marriage, Tina realises that Raj is really in love with Pooja, so she gives him up and finally Pooja and Raj get married.

