A new couple get married and move to Switzerland. They make friends with their new neighbors Akshay Kumar and Bipasha Basu. Life seems perfect until one day when Raj wakes up in Vicky's house and finds out that Vicky's wife has been murdered. Raj is accused of the murder but flees from the authorities in order to prove himself innocent.
Raj Malhotra and Priya happen to meet by chance and fall in love, then they decided to marry with Priya's father wish. After there marriage they decided to go and reside in Switzerland, a country which they though was perfect for them. Here they met another Indian couple and there neighbor Vikram alias Vicky Bajaj and Sonia, they meet and quickly became friends and decided to go on a Christmas vacation to Mauritius, all was well there, until Vikram begin to speak to Raj about wife swapping which upset Raj and a fight break out between the two, breaking up the friendship and leads them back to there destination. A couple of days the two couples again became friends where on Vicky birthday all two men were drunk and finds themselves in each others house the next morning only to know that Sonia is murder, Raj is accused of this, while in court he manage to escape from there and the swiss police and when he decides to confront Vikram he find the evidence to prove his innocence and also win back his love.
Raj Malhotra and Priya is a newly married Indian couple who came to settle in Switzerland. They quickly befriends there neighbor who is also another Indian couple Vikram Bajaj and Sonia. The two couples often hangs out together until things became bitter between Raj and Vikram when Vikram asks Raj to swap each other wife for a night; this angers Raj and a fight break out between the two splitting the couples up. After a few days things seems to cool down once again with the two couples befriending each other again. Then the two men came home drunk one night and ended up sleeping with each other wife, Raj wakes up next morning to be handcuff by the police for the murder of Vikram's wife Sonia. The case is tried in court and Raj is proving guilty, with his wife Priya disbelieving him and losing his friendship with Vikram Raj escapes from the court room to find evidences that will prove his innocence.
On a chance encounter Raj Malhotra meets with Priya . Priya's dad knows of the Malhotra family, and soon Raj and Priya fall in love with each other, and are married. They decide to settle in Switzerland. Their neighbors are another Indian couple, Vikram alias Vicky Bajaj and Sonia Bajaj. They come to know each other, and become friends. They holiday in Mauritius. It is here that Vicky asks Raj to swap wives for a night. This angers Raj and they get into a fight. Back home, things cool down a little bit, and both couples decide to start afresh. On Vicky's birthday, both men get drunk, and end up in each other's homes. Raj wakes up with a dead woman next to him. Subsequently, he is arrested by the Swiss police. His friend Vicky has turned against him; his wife no longer believes him; and it is upto Raj himself to prove his innocence. So he escapes dramatically from the courtroom, and sets out to find evidence that will prove his innocence.
Bobby Deol and Kareena Kapoor play a new couple who get married and move to Switzerland. They make friends with their new neighbours Akshay Kumar and Bipasha Basu. Life seems perfect until one day when Bobby Deol wakes up in Akshay's house and finds out that Akshay's wife has been murdered. Bobby Deol is accussed of the murder but flees from the authorities in order to prove himself innocent.
