Longfellow Deeds lives in a small town, leading a small town kind of life - including playing the tuba in the town band. When a relative dies and leaves Deeds a fortune, Longfellow picks up his tuba and moves to the big city where he becomes an instant target for everyone from the greedy opera committee to the sensationist daily newspaper. Deeds outwits them all until Babe Bennett comes along. Babe is a hot-shot reporter who figures the best way to get close to Deeds is to pose as a damsel in distress. When small-town boy meets big-city girl anything can, and does, happen.
Longfellow Deeds leads a simple and quiet life living in the small town of Mandrake Falls. He's never traveled and makes a living writing little ditties for postcards and the like. When his rich uncle dies, he learns that he has inherited $20 million. He moves to New York where everybody tries get something from him. The estate's lawyer is desperate to get Deeds' power of attorney if for no other reason than to cover up a deficit in the account. They all view Deeds as a country bumpkin but in his own simple way, Deeds just uses common sense and usually ends up making the right decision. He can't resist a damsel in distress however which is what ambitious reporter Babe Bennett is counting on. Love gets in the way however. When Deeds tries to give his money away, he finds himself in court defending his sanity.
The heir of wealthy, deceased Martin Semple proves surprisingly to be one Longfellow Deeds of Mandrake Falls, Vermont. The bemused lawyers in the land of taciturn Yankees find Deeds a simple-hearted greeting card poet, his favorite pastime playing the tuba. Will he be any match for city slickers, embezzlers, moochers, fundraisers, and phonies? Enter brash reporter Babe Bennett, who (for a story) gains Deeds' friendship and seems to be on his side. With friends like these...
Longfellow Deeds, a simple-hearted Vermont tuba player, inherits a fortune and has to contend with opportunist city slickers.
