A sweet-natured Italian waiter named Pistachio Disguisey at his father Fabbrizio's restaurant, who happens to be a member of a family with supernatural skills of disguise. But moments later the patriarch of the Disguisey family is kidnapped Fabbrizio's former arch-enemy, Devlin Bowman, a criminal mastermind in an attempt to steal the world's most precious treasures from around the world. And it's up to Pistachio to track down Bowman and save his family before Bowman kills them!
Pistachio Disguisey, a sweet-natured Italian server at his father Fabbrizio's restaurant, can't figure out why he compulsively mimics his customers and desires to change his appearance. What he doesn't know yet is that these traits are part of the Disguisey family secret legacy. The family come from a long line of masters of disguise who are able to mask themselves as almost anyone or anything by harnessing the great power of Energico. Such a talent makes Fabbrizio the kidnapping target of his former arch-enemy Devlin Bowman, a criminal mastermind. Now Pistachio must make the most of his inherited power in an attempt to track down Devilin and save his parents.
An Italian waiter fights off a criminal mastermind with his inherited powers of disguise.


Pistachio Disguisey is the simple-minded son of the Disguisy italian family. When pistachios father and mother are kidnapped by his fathers arche enemy, Devlin Boman, His granefather shows up and tells him that he, his father, and that he is also a master of disguise. After alot of hardwork Pistachio masters the art of disguise. He hires an assistant and she helps him uncover Bowmans plot, stealing priceless artifacts from around the world, ( Liberty bell, The decleration of indipendence). Pistachio goes to bowmans mansion just as he is about to superglue a mask of his face onto Pistachios father, so he will go to jail as bowman escapes. Pistachio foils his plot and wins over his assistants heart. Pistachio, His parents, His grandparents, And his wife and step-son live happily ever after.

