Scott Calvin has been Santa Claus for the past eight years, and his loyal elves consider him the best Santa ever. But Santa's got problems (he's even mysteriously losing weight) and things quickly go south when he finds out that his son, Charlie, has landed on this year's "naughty" list. Desperate to help his son, Scott heads back home, leaving a substitute Claus to watch over things at the Pole. But when the substitute institutes some strange redefinitions of naughty and nice, putting Christmas at risk, it's up to Scott to return with a new bag of magic to try to save Christmas.
Scott Calvin a.k.a. Santa Claus has two problems, first his son, Charlie has been acting up and as a result of this, is now on the naughty list. And it seems that according to the rules, Santa Claus must be married, so Scott has to go back and find someone to marry and help his son. So he leaves and one of his elves creates a toy Santa to take his palce until he returns. Now the toy Santa seems to be working but after reading the rule book, he believes that the former Santa and everyone there doesn't follow the rules to the letter, so he makes some changes that doesn't seem right.
Scott Calvin has been a humble Santa Claus for nearly ten years, but it might come to an end if he doesn't find a Mrs. Claus.


Santa Claus has been working at his job for eight years now and Christmas is coming. Unfortunately, there's a SECOND clause on the card that got Scott into being Santa in the first place.
In order to continue being Santa, a job Scott has grown to know and love (and is very good at), there must a MISSUS Claus. With only 27 days and no prospects at hand, Scott begins the de-Santification process. His beard shortens, his weight lessens, and he becomes more and more human.
Meanwhile, Scott's son Charlie is getting into trouble at school, spray-painting protests against the school's Principal, Carol Newman. She catches him in the act and calls his parents to a meeting.
There's instant magic between Scott and Carol, first in the guise of intellectual sparring, and later in the form of actual tenderness.
In order to cover up for Santa's absence at the North Pole, Third-in-Command Elf Curtis makes a plastic duplicate of Santa. This doppelganger begins to think for itself, devouring the entire Santa Rule Book and deciding that ALL children belong on the "Naughty List" and should all receive only coal in their stockings. The Elves try to rebel but the evil Santa copy has made an army of toy soldiers just to give his words "a bit of a nudge."

