Vikrant and Gulab Khatri are brothers-in-law who hate each other, and it is only through Vikrant's dad, who is also a mafia underworld don, that an uneasy peace is maintained. But when he passes away, a vengeful Vikrant frames Gulab in the murder of a politician, forcing Gulab to flee to the United States. Once there, Gulab hopes to re-build his life, but this thought is in vain as his neighbors, the Acharyas, find out about him and the reward offered for his arrest - and create a mini-hell for him - forcing him to show his true colors to them - colors that may well lead to the demise of the entire family.
The death of a mafia don (Om Puri) creates a rivalry between his son Vikrant and his son-in-law Guru Gulab Khatri. Vikrant falsely implicates Guru Gulab in the murder of a minister which forces Guru Gulab to flee India. Around the same time in New York, Dr. Anmol Acharya is having a hellish time with his spitfire wife and bossy mother-in-law. When he discovers that his new neighbour is none other than Guru Gulab, his wife and mother-in-law force him to go to India with his father-in-law Manilal, tell Vikrant about Guru Gulab's whereabouts and claim the prize money over Guru's head. When Vikrant learns about this he dispatches a hitman Yeda Anna to eliminate Guru. A series of double crosses ensue and very soon it becomes difficult to predict who is supporting whom.
Awara Paagal Deewana is an action comedy, which revolves around a dentist who accidentally gets trapped into underworld and goes in for a roller coaster ride. A mafia don dies and leaves behind such a will which starts an unending war between Guru Gulab Khatri, don's son-in law and Vikrant, don's only son. Guru Gulab is married to Vikrant's stepsister Preeti. The don's legal will, which also includes diamonds worth hundred crores kept in a foreign bank, has to be equally divided between these three and to claim the diamonds from the bank all three all three have to be present at the bank and personally sign the papers. In event of death of any of the inheritors' death, a death certificate has to be produced to the bank. The will factor vertically splits the gang in two. Vikrant and Guru Gulab become rivals. Vikrant wrongly implicates Guru Gulab in a very serious crime, which forces him to flee out of the India. Guru Gulab leaves India for America and comes to stay in the neighborhood of Dr. Anmol Acharya. Meanwhile in India, Vikrant announces grand prize money to those who tell him the whereabouts of Guru. Anmol's greedy wife Mona forces him to meet Vikrant in India and inform him about Guru Gulab and collect the prize money. Anmol comes to India with his father-in- law and the moment they step into India they are picked up by Choto Chhatri, who takes them to a local goon, Eaida Anna. Anna strikes a deal with Vikrant that he'll kill Guru and acquire the prize money offered by him. Vikrant gives him the contract. So Anmol returns, not with prize money but with Anna and Chota Chhatri, and others have this wrong notion that Anna is just interested in the petty contract money. His interest lies in the diamonds. So this race to reach the diamonds becomes deadlier and all three powers - Vikrant, Guru and Anna clash. And the rule of this race is to kill the other contestants to win the race!!!
Reduced to a henpecked husband, his dream of making it big and being independent in the USA, Dr. Anmol Acharya is, in short, disillusioned and sad. He is not alone, he has his father-in-law, Manilal in the same leaky boat with him. Then this family has a new neighbor, namely Gulu Gulab Khatri. They find out that he a crime lord from India, and has a price-tag of two crore rupees on his head. Anmol and Manilal's wife want their respective husbands to go to India and arrange to hand-over Khatri, so they can collect the dough. Anmol and Manilal do go to India, but things don't go well as planned, and the hapless duo end up as hostages by Chota Chatri and Yeda Anna, who have orders to kill Khatri, and anyone else who gets in their way.
