Sanjay and Anjali are childhood chums . When Sanjay's roommate Ria questions him whether he has fallen for Anjali he vehemently denies . But the truth that he indeed loves her hits him like a ton of bricks when Sanjana calls him to tell that she is getting married to Rohit. Sanjay wants to win Anjali's heart at any cost and sets off on his "noble" cause of stopping the marriage .
Sanjay Malhotra is living in Mumbai with his friend Ria. He receives a phone call from his childhood friend Anjali Sharma who shocks him with the news that she is getting married. Unfortunately Sanjay has loved Anjali for years. Jealous and frustrated Sanjay makes his way to Anjali with one intention - to stop this marriage. Sanjay goes to Anjali's home and soon meets her husband to be, Rohit Khanna. Sanjay then begins to scheme. He organizes a bachelor party for Rohit and all the other males in the family. Rohit ends up completely drunk as do all the other males in the family. However Rohit has picked up on the fact that Sanjay is out to stop his marriage, he vows to make sure that Sanjay fails in this. Sanjay out of desperation gets Ria to come and pose as his girlfriend. This makes Anjali jealous but eventually Ria leaves giving a hint that Sanjay loves Anjali. Giving up, Sanjay leaves for Mumbai as he can not stop the wedding. Meanwhile back at home, Anjali says to Rohit that a relationship must be made on truth so she confesses that she has always loved Sanjay. Rohit stops Sanjay from leaving. Eventually he and Anjali marry.
Sanjay and Anjali have been best friends since they were children. One day, Anjali phones Sanjay who lives in Bombay, to tell him shes getting married. It is then, with the guidance of his friend/roommate Ria that he releases his true feelings that he loves Anhaji, this is something he has never thought about before. So, he leaves for the wedding with the aim to telling Anjali he loves her, and for it too be their wedding, and not Anjali and Rohit's (her new husband-to-be). Soon after Sanjay's arrival, Rohit also arrives, Sanjay begins to sabotage their relationship. But Rohit releases what Sanjay is trying to do, and releases they both love Anjali. So Rohit challenges Sanjay on who will win Anjali's heart once and for all. So, who will Anjali marry?
Beautiful Anjali Sharma and Sanjay Malhotra have been close childhood friends. Anjali falls in love with Sanjay, but Sanjay is tongue-tied,shy and does not display his love for her, and as a result Anjali gives up on him, thinking that he does not love her. She meets up with handsome and debonair Rohit, and both fall in love. Sanjay is heart-broken yet shows that he is excited, and goes out of the way to make arrangements for the marriage.
Sanjay and Rohit are close friends who are very rich and live in a city in India. Both want to get married. While Rohit is about to get married to Anjali, without knowing that his buddy also has given his heart to her. Sanjay is quite content to play second fiddle and let his friend be the groom, while he is willing to dance and sing at his friend's wedding, without revealing his true feelings for the bride.


Love comes to people in all sorts of ways. To some with tenderness of rose, to others with the sparkle of a smile. To Sanjay (Uday Chopra), however, love came hiting like a ton of bricks.Residing in Bombay with his friend and flat mate Ria (Bipasha Basu), Sanjay is the dithering Casanova,constantly bungling up his romantic liaisions, till one day the phone rings. It's his childhood friend Anjali(Sanjana) and she is getting married. It is now that the bricks fall on him. Observing Sanjay's reaction to this news and hearing him talk of Anjali, Ria concludes that Sanjay is in love with Anjali. Sanjay wakes up to this truth reluctantly but surely.But isn't it too late, now that Anjali is getting married? Well, Sanjay doesn't think so! He sets off to Dehradoon on a "noble" mission-to break the wedding!
In Dehradoon he is reunited with the lively Anjali and is overjoyed - till he meets the groom to be - Rohit(Jimmy Shergill). Sanjay's hopes of sabotaging the weding are effectively crushed on meeting the handsome, charismatic, every-girl's-dream guy - Rohit. Nevertheless, Sanjay's love for Anjali implies him to take on the world and he sets off on his crusade of poisoning the family's mind against Rohit, and setting up traps for Rohit to fall into. Rohit soon realizes that Sanjay is behund these seemingly innocent coincidences and confronts him - a clsh between the good and the not-so-good.Both men decide to give each other a fair chance, letting Anjali to be the final decesion maker.
Does Rohit's integrity win over Anjali or does Sanjay's love emerge triumphant?Tough choice?!
Mere yaar ki shaadi hai...

