Karan is a lazy good-for-nothing who lives on the generated income of his father and elder brother at their family business. Karan's days: hang out with buddies and romance a woman named Romi. When he watches an action movie, he decides to enlist in the army with a friend, but basic training proves to be too much of a bother and he shortly abandons it, thus making him lose respect on the home front. Romi also stops respecting him. Karan decides he must re-join the army and show his family and Romi that he, too, is focused upon the path he has to take in this lifetime, but will he be resilient enough to carry out this task?
It's 1999, and Lt. Karan Shergill (Hrithik Roshan) has been posted to the Siachen region of Kashmir, near the Indo-Pak border. As he bonds with fellow officers and gets to know the region under their supervision, he reminisces about his previous life, how he was the good-for-nothing black sheep of his family who took the entrance exam for the Indian Military Academy purely on a whim. Harsh training prompted him to run away and return home, but that decision, in turn, caused a breakup with his girlfriend, Romila "Romi" Dutta (Preity Zinta), and a confrontation with his father's low opinion of him. He returned to the academy, finished his training, and emerged an officer - but there isn't much time left to dwell upon the past. Terrorists have crossed the Line Of Control and now occupy a few key mountain peaks that serve as attack points. Indian Defense retaliates, and thus begins Operation Vijay, a mission to reclaim the terrorist-captured points before it is too late. Karan is swept into a heated battle to capture an important peak. He knows very well that this might just be a great chance to serve his country and look the world in its face.
Mr. Shergill has two sons, Udesh and Karan. While responsible Udesh has joined the family business, slacker Karan drifts along with no motivation to do anything - other than someday marry the woman he loves, Romila Dutta (Romi). One day while watching Arnold Schwarzenegger kick butt in "Commando," he decides to enlist in the Indian Military Academy, much to his parents' shock and surprise; however, Karan's tryst with the military does not last long, and he deserts. When he finds that his parents and brother have such little respect for him that they fully expected him to quit and return home, he decides to return to the academy instead. Later on, Karan and Romi meet up. She's now a field correspondent for Global News, and he is now an acting captain in the Indian Military, a man with a mission - to climb Peak 5179 and hoist the Indian Tricolor there by any means.
Karan Shergill has no ambition or direction in life and no plan in mind for his future. He is an aimless fellow, unsure what career to pursue. When one of his friends considers joining the army, he does, too, applying for the army academy. Though his friend backs out, Karan goes trough with it, but lives to regret this as training begins. He runs away to return home. Although he is wryly welcomed back by his parents (who've expected nothing better of him), he is lambasted by Romilla (his girlfriend) for not sticking to his decision. Devastated by his father's reaction and his girl's breakup, he returns to the Academy, gives it his best, and graduates. He is sent to the border when the war with Pakistan breaks. He then discovers the ambition for his life: take back peak 5179, which has been captured by Pakistani militants. His problems double when Romilla appears on the scene, now an area reporter and already betrothed to someone else. Karan now has a fight on two frontiers.
An aimless, jobless, irresponsible grown man joins the army and matures into a battlefield hero.
