After an outbreak of a mysterious virus, the world is dominated by vampires helped by the traitorous Vichys. The atheist Gwen Waters leaves the small town of St. Anthony on her bicycle, trying to find the alcoholic Priest Joe Cahill and bring him back to her town to give hope to the humans dwelling there. Father Joe rebuilds the church with the support of some locals but is attacked by vampires and Vichys leaded by the evil Father Alberto Palmeri, in a battle between good and evil.
A group of people fight for their small town after vampires take over the world.


NOTE: It helps to know that there are three classes of vampires in this movie: 1) the old ones who look like
nosferatu, 2) the new ones who look like normal people with fangs, and 3) the Vichys who are the vampire watchdogs/renfields.
A virus has swept the world. It started in Saudi Arabia, then moved
to India, Egypt, Africa, and Europe. It wasn't until it was already on the
shores of the United States that Americans learned it wasn't a virus at
all. It was vampires. The vampires of legend have been here all the time,
and now they've united. Thanks to a coverup by the government and the
Center for Disease Control, vampires now rule the planet.
In a small town somewhere on the New Jersey shoreline, Gwen Waters [Pamela Kays] is
one of the few remaining humans. It is afternoon, the time when humans can
still get around. Gwen sits on a bench on the boardwalk, contemplating the
Atlantic, when she is suddenly grabbed by four Vichys. They are in search
of a human for tonight's confirmation ceremony. They aren't particularly
impressed with dowdy little Gwen so they pursue a tall, skinny blonde.
Gwen manages to escape. She trails the Vichys to St. Anthony's Church and
watches through the window as Father Alberto Palmeri [Marvin W Schwartz], once senior priest
at St Anthony's, slices open the blonde's neck, after which all the
vampires, old and new, drink their fill.
Gwen has been able to keep herself alive by learning about the old
legends. A confirmed atheist, Gwen admits that crosses work, even if she
can't explain why. Probably something psychological. Her Uncle Joe Cahill [Douglas Gibson] is a
priest. In fact, he used to be a junior priest at St Anthony's, until he
was falsely accused of molesting a young boy and got railroaded by the
bishop when no one from his parish stood up for him. Gwen thinks that
Father Joe might be able to help her fight the vampires, so she
goes looking for him. She finds him holed up in the basement of Morton's
Liquors, where the priest spends his time drinking.
Meanwhile, the sun has gone down and Carl Edwards [David Dwyer] and his daughter
Mickey [Mariana Matthews] are headed for a house where a number of humans are holed up
plotting against the vampires. Unfortunately, they all want to be in
charge, so nothing is being done.
Gwen and Father Joe shoot the breeze for a while, and Gwen stays the
night during which they are invaded by a vampire. Father Joe chases it
away with a cross. The next morning, they find the vampire's burned out
carcass on the front lawn. Gwen wonders whether vampires are deserving of
the last rites, considering that they were once humans before they were
"murdered". At first, Father Joe balks; in the end, he gives last rites to
the dead vampire.
On their way back to St Anthony's, Gwen and Father Joe pass a field
in which a little girl is picking flowers. Gwen tries to rescue the girl,
but Mickey Edwards suddenly races through the field, picks up the girl, and tells Gwen and
Joe to run...things are not as they seem. Suddenly, tires squeal. Three
Vichys get out of the car and round up Gwen, Joe, and the girl. "Raven!"
says the little girl. "Did I do good? Can I see my mommy now?" The Vichys
have resorted to using human children as bait. Suddenly, shots ring out
from a rooftop. The Vichys flee.
Gwen takes Father Joe to Finnegan and Dakota's tattoo parlor, hoping
to find a place of sanctuary for the night. They are suddenly attacked by
vampires. Finnegan is bitten but, before he dies, he tells Gwen that she
can use the rooms upstairs. During the night, Gwen educates Father Joe
about the Vichys. The Vichys take their name from the Vichy French, she
explains, who collaborated with the Nazis in order to spare their
families. Vichy Vampires do it for the promise of immortality. But why
don't the vampires just turn the Vichys? The vampires had to turn a lot of
humans in order to takeover the world, Gwen explains. Now there are too
many vampires and they're all starving. Another problem is that they are
sterile. They need Vichys to mate with humans and replenish the foodstock.
They have actually set up a "stud ranch" at the old hotel on Route 70
where they take human females to rape and replenish the stock.
That night, Gwen and Father Joe sneak up to St Anthony's. Peeking
through the window, Joe sees Father Palmeri sacrificing another victim,
and it instills in Joe the desire to fight for his parish. The next day
they go into the church. What a stench from the bodies laying all over.
"Look what they've done to my church!" Father Joe cries out. As Joe
retches over the destruction, Carl and Mickey show up. Carl is ecstatic at
seeing Father Joe back and promises to help in whatever way possible. They
start by cleaning up the church.
That night, as Father Joe says Mass, vampires attack the church. When
one of the Vichys drinks the sacrificial wine and is totally destroyed,
Gwen is converted. Big battle follows in which Father Joe is beaten up and
awakens to find himself tied to the altar. Gwen is hoisted up on a rope to
the roof of the church so Palmeri can taunt Joe with her life. Palmeri
tells Joe that he's going to be reborn into the darkness, but Joe promises
that he will refuse the hunger and hunt down Palmeri. Carl rounds up a
bunch of humans to fight the vampires. In the melee that follows, Mickey
stabs Raven, little girl (now vampire) bites Carl, Joe tries to save Gwen
but Palmeri drops her to the floor just as Mickey rips a cloth off the
consecrated altar. The bright light blinds Palmeri, and he and Gwen both
fall on a stake. Joe drives the stake further into Palmeri's chest. As she
lies dying, Gwen makes Joe promise that he will continue the fight. Joe
gives Gwen Extreme Unction.
"It's a toehold...it's a victory...it's a spark. Let's worry about the
future tomorrow," says Father Joe as he and Mickey go off into the sunrise.
[Original synopsis by bj_kuehl]

