A wealthy industrialist and business man named Raj Singhania lives in Bombay, India. He reaches up with a music band in which Karan Malhotra is the leader and Priya is his right-hand and sweetheart. Karan finds that it is not easy to achieve one's merit. A contract made between the two for his band to sing on a crusade for Raj. He agrees to do so and later on conspire with his girlfriend Priya to take over Raj vast estate by setting up his girlfriend to marry Raj fakely. On a chance encounter one day Raj and Priya both meet, where by Raj fall head over heals in love with Priya. And later on they both got engaged. Raj carry Priya and introduce her to his entire family where a date for the marriage between the two is set. And later on finalized. On his wedding night Priya speaks to Raj about she must remain a virgin until one month and he agrees to do so, unknown to him that it is a conspiracy by Karan and Priya. After a few days Priya decides to break plans with Karan releasing what is husband and wife which leads to the destruction of both Raj and Priya by Karan. But, after learning the truth between Karan and Priya, Raj and Karan had a scuffle which leads to the death of Karan and unite the married couple for years to come.
Karan Malhotra (Akshaye Khanna) and Priya (Amisha Patel) belong to a rock band of sorts, and are sweethearts. Karan is the leader of the group, and finds that success is not easy. With considerable difficulty Karan is able to secure a contract with the prestigious company belonging to the most eligible and wealthy bachelor, Raj Singhania (Bobby Deol). This contract entails performing on a palatial yacht owned by Raj. The group is thrilled to get this contract and practice thoroughly to make themselves a success. Karan and Priya see this as an opportunity to save money for a happily married life. A chance meeting with Priya, throws Raj head over heels in love with her. Karan notices this, but has faith in his love and Priya. But others in the group observe that Priya is reciprocating Raj's advances. Then one day Raj presents Priya with an engagement, and Priya accepts it. He asks her to accompany him to see his family, where she is introduced to everyone. The family approve of her and a marriage is arranged. But is Priya really in love with Raj? What will be Karan's predicament when he finds out that his sweetheart has betrayed him? Does Raj really love Priya or does he want her to be one of his possessions?
Karan and Priya Share a secret Raj wants to know the secret.
