Khushi (Rani Mukerji) is a careless worker always conning her boss and making excuses to bunk her duty. She meets Ranbir Malhotra (Ajay Devgan) and comes to know that the home he plans to build for his love is now a dream unfulfilled. After being dispelled from her job, her devil brain works. She locates the bungalow and moves in, informing everyone that she is Ranbir's fiancée. There she meets Ranbir's family and Pooja (Sonali Bendre), Ranbir's love. When Ranbir returns, at first he is outraged at Khushi's intrusion in his life, but then decides to play along with Khushi to make Pooja jealous and fall in love with him. During all this fun and conning, Khushi and Ranbir end up really falling in love with each other. However, Khushi's close encounter with reality and Ranbir's old commitments hold them back for a long time before they finally listen to their hearts.
Our story begins firstly combine girl and boy , before the story now let us know some about the beautiful heroine ,(Kochi)Is a beautiful girl and a single live alone, does not have any one in this world but her uncle and aunt live far from her, she does not need one (as most women are always said),she is living life on her own, does not stand in front of anything or anyone of, and all over the world is her home ,she tell lies Always but does not harm any body with her lies , but in many cases her lies make everyone benefits, but we will see with how some of her lies will turn out on here after a while. Now, with hero handsome ,(Ranbir Malhotra) is Beautiful man from the inside rather than a dreamer and often realistic,he dream about ahouse he built by his own and live with him his sweet lover ,but he will know that all imagination woven in quite far from reality,he is working as the architect of India-based afamous company in the city of Delhi,his family is one of the great wealthy family in shemla surname is (Malhotra),he Is the only son of the family so they all waiting impatiently for his marriage, but do not know that God planned marriage for hem can only dream of.
Khushi (Rani Mukherji) is a petty thief and a con artist, partnering with "Chacha" (Sadashiv Amrapurkar) and "Chachi" (Shashikala), a homeless and alcoholic couple. On a chance encounter with Ranbir Malhotra (Ajay Devgan), she finds out about a bunglow that he is building, which has not yet been occupied. She locates the bunglow and moves in, informing everyone that she is Ranbir's fiancee. She meets with the Malhotra family, who welcome her with open arms, and also meets with Pooja (Sonali Bendre), with whom Ranbir is in love with. When Ranbir returns, at first he is outraged at Khushi's intrusion into his life, but then decides to play along with Khushi to make Pooja jealous, little knowing what this playing around will do to his family; Pooja; and to Chacha and Chachi.


The movie is about a girl named Kushi who cons a man (Tanbir), she met one night at her job. She get thrown out of her apartment one day and looses her job. She has no where to do and does not want to move back home with her aunt and uncle. She finds out where Tanbir lives and that the house is empty. It was built for the Tanbir's girlfriend who didn't want to marry him. So Kushi moves in to the house and pretends to be his wife. He finds out and they continue to lie to win the man's girlfriend back. Tanbir's family finds out he got married and they throw the newly weds a party. Kushi brings in a homeless couple to prented to be her parents because her parents are deceased. After Tanbir's girlfriend realizes she can marry him Tanbir really falls in love with his made-believe wife. Tanbir and Kusi falls in love and gets married. Chori Chori is the Indian version of the 1992 HouseSitter with Goldi Hawn and Steve Martin.

