Kevin McCallister's parents have split up. Now living with his mom, he decides to spend Christmas with his dad at the mansion of his father's rich girlfriend, Natalie. Meanwhile robber Marv Merchants, one of the villains from the first two movies, partners up with a new criminal named Vera to hit Natalie's mansion.
Christmas this year looks bad to Kevin McCallister. His parents Peter and Kate have been separated for the past 8 months, and things at home with Kate are difficult enough without the bullying dealt to Kevin by his older brother Buzz and older sister Megan. Peter invites Kevin and his siblings to stay with him and his rich new girlfriend Natalie for Christmas. Kate simply offers the kids love and affection. The kids side with Kate, but Kevin is thinking hard about the invitation. On Christmas Eve, Kevin sneaks to Natalie's place to spend the holidays with Peter. Natalie lives in a mansion where almost everything responds to remote commands. Butler Prescott and kindly housekeeper Molly are at Kevin's beck and call. Peter and Natalie leave for a while. At Christmas, they will be picking up some house guests at the airport, including an 11-year-old crown prince. Kevin witnesses his old enemy Marv Merchants and Marv's wife Vera breaking in to case the mansion with the help of an insider who gave Marv a remote control to it. Natalie and Peter don't believe Kevin, and Prescott says he saw nothing, which makes Kevin think maybe Prescott is the insider. Peter decides they should all trim the Christmas tree, and they do. Kate comes over to bring Kevin some things, and it becomes obvious to Kevin that Kate and Peter still love each other deep down inside. Marv and Vera plan to kidnap the prince and decide to make their move on Christmas morning. Upon learning about this, Kevin rigs the house with booby traps. Come Christmas morning, Kevin is left at the mansion while Natalie and Peter go out to pick up the guests. In their absence, Marv and Vera break in again, looking for the prince. But they didn't know that they'd find Kevin in there, with a bunch of painful booby traps for them.
Kevin McCallister was invited to his Dad's girlfriend's mansion. Kevin accepts the invitation, and has fun until he finds out that his nemesis, Marv, and his wife, Vera, are planning to kidnap the crowned prince, a visitor of the mansion. He floods the bathroom while Marv and Vera were in it. Kevin gets framed for the mess when his Dad came back to the mansion. When Marv and Vera came back on the next day, Kevin smashed their plans by sending them out the window. Natalie, (Dad's girlfriend,) sees the broken window, and frames Kevin again. On the next day, it was revealed that Molly, Natalie's maid, was Marv's accomplice. But Kevin was able to injure the three with traps. The police came and took them. Kevin's dad and Natalie saw it, and finally believed Kevin about the burglars.


Peter is about to get divorced from Kate and announces that he's living with his new girlfriend, Natalie. He tells his three children, including Kevin, that they are hosting the visit of a royal family and invites everyone to spend Christmas with him and Natalie. After initially refusing, Kevin takes his father up on his offer after being tormented by his older brother Buzz.
Kevin enjoys life at Natalie's mansion, until he goes into the security room, where he runs into Mr. Prescott. While Natalie and Peter are away, Kevin notices his old nemesis Marv and new sidekick Vera (taking the place of Harry) outside the house. Kevin drives them away by flooding the house, but Peter and Natalie arrive while Kevin is cleaning up and Peter doesn't believe Kevin's explanation. He attempts to use the security camera footage to prove himself, but discovers that the camera had been turned off and is caught by Mr. Prescott, who Kevin now believes to be Marv and Vera's ally.
At a party for the royal family, Kevin notices Marv and Vera dressed up as caterers. Kevin has them fall out and break his bedroom window, then has Mr. Prescott frozen in ice. The royal family are unable to attend the party because their flight was cancelled so Peter and Natalie instead announce their engagement. When Kevin breaks his promise not to mess up the special occasion, Peter gets mad and believes that Kevin is trying to end his relationship with Natalie.
Since no one believes him about the heist, Kevin decides to deal with matters himself, and sets booby traps for Marv and Vera and locks Mr. Prescott in the basement. But then he discovers Marv and Vera's real ally is actually Molly the maid, who turns out to be Marv's mother. Kevin gets locked in the basement; after apologizing to Mr. Prescott for misjudging him (and vice-versa), Kevin manages to escape through the dumbwaiter. He then runs to the bedroom and plays a recording of Marv, making it sound like he's insulting Vera, which causes her to break up with him. He also gets Molly trapped in the elevator. Marv and Vera end up swinging from a chandelier, fall and are knocked unconscious. Molly, having escaped, grabs Kevin, but Mr. Prescott knocks her out with a serving tray.
As Peter, Kate, Buzz and Megan arrive, they and Kevin chase Marv and Vera out of the house and trip them up. The royal family and Natalie arrive and Natalie is confused when she sees Marv, Vera and Molly getting arrested. Prescott resigns and the royal family choose to spend their Christmas with the McCallisters instead of Natalie. Peter then breaks up with her and Natalie hyperventilates. The McCallisters embrace as the film ends.

