In Budapest, Hungary, the Matuschek and Company store is owned by Mr. Hugo Matuschek and the bachelor Alfred Kralik is his best and most experienced salesman. When Klara Novak seeks a job position of saleswoman in the store, Matuschek hires her but Kralik and she do not tolerate each other. Meanwhile the lonely and dedicated Kralik has an unknown pen pal that he intends to propose very soon; however, he is fired without explanation by Matuschek in the night that he is going to meet his secret love. He goes to the bar where they have scheduled their meeting with his colleague Pirovitch and he surprisingly finds that Klara is his correspondent; however, ashamed with the unemployment, he does not disclose his identity to her. When Matuschek discovers that he had misjudged Kralik and committed a mistake, he hires him again for the position of manager. But Klara is still fascinated with her future fiancé and does not pay much attention to Kralik.
Alfred Kralik is the senior salesman in a long established Budapest book shop, owned by the likealbe and kindly Hugo Matuschek. Alfred has been there for 9 years and is very good at his job. One day a young woman, Klara Novak,comes into the shop looking for a job. They don't really have a position available but she impresses Mr. Matuschek with her skills and is taken on. Alfred and Klara don't get along very well but unbeknown to either of them, they have been corresponding anonymously. On the day he is to meet her finally, Alfred is fired for reasons that are not clear to him. He has always gotten along well with Mr. Matuschek who it turn out, suspects him of having an affair with his wife. He's wrong of course but that evening, Alfred sees that Klara is the one he has been corresponding with. He's soon back in the shop when Mr. Matuschek realizes his error but the question now is how he could possibly impress her without revealing who he is.
"Matuschek's" is the gift shop around the corner. Among the staff is Alfred Kralik, a likeable young man who's in love with a woman he has never met and whose name he doesn't even know (their "romance" has been conducted through a post office box). When Klara Novak comes to work as a clerk in the shop, the sparks begin to fly: she and Alfred can't stand each other. Of course, what neither knows is that Klara is the woman Alfred has been romancing through the mail!
Two employees at a gift shop can barely stand one another, without realizing that they're falling in love through the post as each other's anonymous pen pal.


Matuschek's, a gift store in Budapest, is the workplace of Alfred Kralik (James Stewart) and Klara Novak (Margaret Sullavan). At work they constantly irritate each other, but this daily aggravation is tempered by the fact that each has a secret pen pal with which they trade long soul-searching letters. Romantic correspondence is sent back and forth, and while Alfred and Klara trade barbs at work, they dream of someday meeting their sensitive, caring and completely wonderful soul-mate. Of course, neither realizes that their soul-mates are really each other.
Christmas is fast approaching, and the store is busy. Alfred had been with the store for some time, and has always been treated well by Mr. Matuschek (Frank Morgan), but lately his attitude has changed. Alfred is at a loss, and Matuschek avoids any explanation, finally telling Alfred that it would be best if he left. Stunned, Alfred accepts his last paycheck and says goodbye to everyone, including Klara. For once they are civil to each other.
A long awaited meeting of the secret pen pals was planned for that night, and Alfred, feeling little romance, has no desire to go. Finding he can't fight his curiosity, he wanders to the restaurant where they'd agreed to meet and peeks in the window. Of course, Klara is there waiting for him, wearing a red carnation they'd agreed to use as a signal. Realizing that he'd been wrong about her all along, and that his irritation with her was actually masking his attraction, he finally enters and goes over to her table, but does not reveal his true reason for being there. He's the last person she wanted to see, and she makes her dislike for him painfully evident. Alfred, hurt by her rudeness, finally leaves, knowing that she will wait all night for someone who is no longer coming.
Meanwhile, back at the store, Mr. Matuschek has a late-night meeting with a private detective. He knows that his wife has been having an affair with one of his employees, and was convinced it was his trusted friend, Alfred. The detective however tells Matuschek it is in fact another man and, heart-broken over his wife's infidelity and his poor treatment of Alfred, he retires to his office. The delivery boy, returning late, stops Matuschek as he is pulling out a pistol. Collapsing in grief and shame, he is rushed to the hospital.
The next day Alfred visits Mr. Matuschek in his sick bed, where he asks for Alfred's forgiveness and puts him back to work, now as manager of the store. Klara arrives late, obviously heartbroken after the failure of her soul-mate to materialize last night. When she finds that the man she insulted is now her boss, she faints in the middle of his office. Later, as she is resting at home, Alfred pays her a visit, bringing her another letter from her secret pen pal (actually himself) that explains his absence. Relieved, she swears to Alfred she'll be back at work in the morning, and even restrains from delivering more than a few mild barbs to Alfred. He is still stung, but feels more and more tenderness towards her.
Christmas Eve is here, and everyone works through the day. Mr. Matuschek has nearly recovered from his sickness and stops by to see how things are going, and when the final tally is made, the store has had its best sales day ever. Delighted, he hands out bonuses to all, and takes the stockboy out for Christmas dinner. Alfred and Klara are getting ready to leave, and she has another date with her mystery pen pal, but Alfred delays her with a few questions. She's never yet seen him, and can't wait to find out what he looks like. Alfred plays along, but tenderly, not wanting to hurt her. He tells her that the mysterious pen pal stopped by to see him earlier, and he is in fact fat, bald, older and broke.
Saddened and deflated, Klara confesses to Alfred that she'd hoped her secret friend was an attractive young man, and she dreamed of becoming engaged. Actually, she'd really hoped that her soul-mate looked like him, and goes on to say that when they'd first met, she had really found him very attractive. "Would it be so bad", he asks her, "if it really was me after all?" He holds up a red carnation, and suddenly eveything becomes clear to her. Realizing they are both in love, they embrace, and go out to celebrate Christmas together.

