Raj and Priya come from two different strata of society. While Raj owns a small-time transport business and belongs to the economically middle class section of society, Priya belongs to the affluent class and is on the road to becoming a famous fashion designer. But when a chance encounter brings them together, they are drawn towards each other. Raj has fallen for Priya but Priya is already engaged to marry her childhood friend Sameer. Raj follows her all the way to Greece to woo her. During the journey Priya realizes that Raj is her true soulmate and decides to marry him. But after a year of their marriage, things are not quite rosy as the once-lovestruck couple faces the harsh realities of marriage. Raj runs into financial problems and Priya borrows money from Sameer without telling Raj. When Raj finds out, all hell breaks loose and in an angry fit he accuses Priya of infidelity. This is too much to take for Priya and she leaves their home. Will they reunite or will the discord never be set straight?
Priya Chopra is a fashion designer and Raj Mathur owns a small trucking company. They meet on the road, quarrel, and then fall for each other. Priya, who is already engaged, must decide whether she will marry her fiancé or leave him for Raj. Love triumphs, Raj and Priya marry and then struggle against adversity. They quarrel, separate, then reconcile.
A chance accident between the car and a truck driven by Priya Chopra (Rani Mukherjee) and Raj Mathur (Shahrukh Khan) leads to romance. However, Priya is already engaged to be married to Sameer (Jas Arora). Her heart tells her that Raj is her soulmate, and so she decides to marry Raj. The marriage is celebrated by great pomp and ceremony. Life seems all too perfect, until Raj runs into financial problems. Priya's aunt (Lillette Dubey) comes for a visit and is appalled by the conditions Priya is living in. After her visit, problems abound for Raj and Priya and eventually they decide to separate. Will these two former lovebirds be content to stay away from each other, and carry on with their lives? Or will they patch up and continue the acrimony where they left off?
Raj is a truck driver in India, while Priya comes from a wealthy family abroad, and is engaged to be married to Sameer. When Raj and Priya meet, sparks fly, they are attracted to each other, and despite objections from Priya's family, they get married and Priya moves in with Raj and tries to live on his income. After sometime, however, differences crop up between the couple, especially after the arrival of Priya's wealthy aunt, who offers them monetary assistance, which is humiliating for Raj. Priya and Raj start arguing and decide to separate. Will the separation lead to a divorce or will they be re-united again?
