Naina {Preity Zinta} is a young woman, slightly ticked off for reasons more than one. His father committed suicide when she needed him the most, leaving Jennifer{Jaya bachchan}, his wife all alone. Lajjo{Sushma Seth}, Jennifer's mother-in-law blames Jennifer for the same. furthermore, Jennifer is unhappy because Lajjo refuses to accept Gia, a 6-year old girl whom Jennifer adopted. Even the restaurant Jennifer is running is not going great guns. in short, nothing is well on the Kapur family front. the only factors that redeem Naina's existence are his toiling and tolerant mother Jennifer, and her bumbling stumbling MBA classmate Rohit {Saif Ali Khan}. Meanwhile, Aman{Shah Rukh Khan}, a happy-go-lucky guy arrives in Naina's neighbourhood and soon changes everything around, thanks to his contagious joviality and jest for life. He proves to be the messiah for the Kapur family in every sort. Naina is not a happy camper initially but could remain unaffected by his charisma for long, and falls in love with him. On the contrary, some platonic moments arouse Rohit's fondness for Naina a bit more and he's in love too. But when Naina thinks of confessing her love to Aman, she realises that Aman is a married man. its only later when we find out that Aman lies because he is a heart patient and has a limited life to live. But since Aman loves Naina too, he wants some one's love to embrace Naina after him for which he finds Rohit suitable. Rohit who took no time to move after some pain, is somehow coaxed by Aman to re-think about his relation with Naina. Aman plans a strategic set of efforts and brings Rohit and Naina close. But when Naina finds out the truth, what follows is a complex string of pangs of helpless love. Aman meets his decided fate, but not before changing Naina's life forever.
The film's female lead, Naina (Preity Zinta) narrates the story. Her father had committed suicide years ago which left a deep impact on her heart. Her family is dysfunctional since her mother and grandmother just cannot stop arguing. But when Aman (Shahrukh Khan) arrives next door, the whole gloomy conditions change. Aman infuses life in skeptical and overtly serious Naina, and she falls in love with him. But Aman knows that he cannot marry Naina because of a secret which he cannot divulge to her. So he intends upon setting her up with her best pal Rohit (Saif Ali Khan).
Naina is a very serious girl with a very serious life. But one day, her soul is awakened by the happy-go-lucky Aman, who teaches her that life is meant to be lived. Naturally, she falls in love with him. But Aman is harboring a secret that keeps him from reciprocating Naina's love. But he cannot stand having her live a life without love, so he sets off on a mission to fill her life with someone else's love - someone she already knows....
Naina and Rohit are best friends. When Aman comes into their lives, their worlds are turned upside down. Aman tries to play matchmaker between them and succeeds as Rohit falls for Naina. However, Naina falls in love with Aman, who although also in love with her, rejects her love. Meanwhile, Aman goes around fixing Naina's family problems.
Naina Kapur is the eldest of three and currently doing an MBA course in New York City. Her coursemate Rohit is a playboy wannabe who fails more than he succeeds, and the two befriend each other since she's one of the few women he doesn't plan to court. Naina lives with her mother and her paternal grandmother who, in essence, is your stereotypical mother-in-law. Not everything is going smoothly for the family. Their restaurant business is constantly in the red and family squabbles between the two in-laws are constant. However, the Kapur family still maintains their status quo, even if the children are unhappy about it. Enter Naina's new neighbour, Aman Mathur - a charismatic busybody who gets into everyone's face and then gets away with it. He brings a new life to the neighbourhood and slowly but surely begins to change the lives of everyone around him. He pushes people to become the best that they can be, and even gets Rohit spurred on enough to court Naina seriously. That is, until he realises that he's falling hard for Naina as well. And to complicate matters, Naina has also fallen for him.
Naina, an introverted, perpetually depressed girl's life changes when she meets Aman. But Aman has a secret of his own which changes their lives forever. Embroiled in all this is Rohit, Naina's best friend who conceals his love for her.


Naina Catherine Kapur (Preity Zinta) is an angry young woman, for more than one reason. Her father committed suicide when she needed him the most, leaving his wife Jennifer (Jaya Bachchan) to raise their children all alone. The restaurant Jennifer operates is faltering. Furthermore, Naina's paternal grandmother, Lajjo (Sushma Seth), blames Jennifer for the suicide and refuses to accept Gia, a six-year-old girl whom Jennifer adopted, as her granddaughter, blaming her for bringing bad luck to the family. Naina has to put up with the daily fights that take place in the house as a result. The only factors that redeem her life are the toiling and tolerant Jennifer and Naina's bumbling MBA classmate Rohit (Saif Ali Khan)
Aman Mathur (Shahrukh Khan) arrives in Naina's neighbourhood and soon changes everything. Noticing the sadness of his new neighbours, he intervenes. His well-meaning interference in their activities, his revival of their financial condition, and his general optimism soon change their lives for the better. Although Naina is initially reluctant to enjoy Aman's presence as others do and is irritated by his extroverted, overly-enthusiastic attitude, she grows to like him and eventually to love him.
Meanwhile, her friend Rohit has fallen in love with her. On Aman's encouragement, he calls Naina for lunch but before he can propose to her, she reveals her love for Aman. Rohit informs Aman about this and leaves shortly for his parents' home. Naina goes to Aman's house where, to stop her from confessing her feelings to him, Aman tells her that he is married to a woman named Priya.
Aman, it is revealed, is dying of a severe condition that is progressively weakening his heart. Knowing that his lifespan is limited, he goes through life facilitating friendships and courtship, and urging people to enjoy themselves in the present moment since "tomorrow might never come". His excursions into such altruism eventually lead him to sacrifice his love for Naina and instead playing matchmaker between her and Rohit. After a few weeks of courtship, Naina starts to like Rohit as more than just a friend and accepts his proposal of marriage.
The tension within Naina's family also stops when Aman, after intercepting a personal letter addressed to Jennifer, reveals that Gia is Naina's half-sister through their father's extramarital affair. Lajjo finally accepts Gia, and the now-united family wholeheartedly prepare for Rohit and Naina's wedding.
As the film progresses, Aman's health deteriorates. One episode of intense excitement nearly kills him. Naina, in a chance encounter, meets Priya, Aman's supposed wife who is actually his doctor. She then realises that Aman had lied about his being married to hide his true condition, and possibly, the fact that he may love her in return. She goes to see Aman, and although he defiantly refuses to admit his true feelings, she finally understands that he loves her as well. Aman convinces her to get married to Rohit anyway, because he will not be alive for much longer. Shortly after Rohit and Naina marry, Aman eventually dies of his weakness, with Rohit and Naina by his side.
- Sinjan

