A veteran of World War I marries and settles happily into a tidy, humble life until an accident brings back memories of a former life of wealth and privilege while blocking all recollection of his existence since the war. Thus one man disappears, and another man long missing turns up and claims his vast inheritance. What does his devoted wife, whom he no longer recognizes, do?
Charles Rainier is a World War I veteran, an amnesiac who remembers nothing of his past. He flees the asylum and meets the beautiful Paula who takes an immediate liking to him. Charles is shy, owing mostly to the fact that he has only just recovered his speech, but he hopes to make his life ass a writer. He and Paula are soon married and later have a child. Thing are looking up when he's invited to an interview with a major newspaper. On his way there however, he is struck by a car crossing the street. He awakens having recovered the memory he lost, but now has no memory of the life he's led with Paula including that he has a child. He's actually quite wealthy and returns to the family home in Sussex. He involves himself in the family business and is quite successful. Unknown to him, Paula is nearby and through a twist of fate have a future together.
As the First World War ends a soldier wanders out of a Midlands asylum. Smithy was found in the trenches having lost his memory and all contact with the past. Amidst the noise of the armistice celebrations he meets a music hall actress. They fall in love, marry, move to a country cottage, and have a son. On a trip alone to Liverpool Smithy is involved in an accident. His original memory returns, but he now remembers nothing at all about his new life.
World War I has just ended. An amnesiac war veteran, known as John Smith, has just escaped from the Melbridge County Asylum, only there in the first place because of his amnesia and having nowhere else to go. Outside, he is quickly befriended by Paula, a traveling music hall performer who nicknames him Smithy and who wants to nurture his ability to regain his memory. To hide him from the authorities who are after him, she quits her job and takes him out to the countryside. They soon fall in love and despite not knowing his true identity or his past, they get married and start a family. An accidental bump to the head makes Smithy remember his past life as Charles Rainier but he forgets about what happened in his life the previous three years, including his marriage to Paula. Charles returns to his life as a wealthy Rainier and begins his career as head of the Rainier family business. He also plans to marry a longtime family friend, Kitty. But Charles' new secretary, Margaret Hansen, wants Charles to remember the life he left behind with Paula as Margaret is a person who knew Smithy. Margaret's task is made even more complicated when Charles makes her an interesting proposition. Things start to look familiar once Charles makes a business trip to Melbridge.
An amnesiac World War I vet falls in love with a music hall star, only to suffer an accident which restores his original memories but erases his post-War life.
