Rusty Parker, a red-headed leggy dancer at Danny McGuire's Night Club in Brooklyn, wants to be a successful Broadway star. She enters a contest to be a 'Cover Girl' as a stepping-stone in her career. She reminds the publisher, John Coudair, of his lost love, showgirl Maribelle Hicks. He was engaged to Maribelle, although his wealthy society mother made fun of her. Maribelle left John at the altar when she saw the piano at her wedding. It reminded her of the piano-player she truly loved. Rusty is Maribelle's granddaughter and there are musical sequences with Maribelle dancing to songs from the beginning of the 20th century. Rusty lands on the cover of her grandmother's former fiancé's magazine (as a bride). She is pursued by Coudair's pal, the wealthy theatrical producer, Noel Wheaton. He produces a lavish musical to star Rusty, surrounded by real cover girls of the mid 1940's. Rusty runs down a huge spiral into the arms of dozens of men who seem clumsy next to her ethereal dancing. But her success threatens Danny McGuire. He expressed his distress that his girlfriend will find success without him in Kelly's famous dance with himself, 'Alter Ego'. He and his sidekick, Genius, leave New York and entertain soldiers fighting in World War II. Rusty agrees to marry Noel, dazzled by success, security, and his power and money. But she drinks and loses weight because her heart belongs to Danny. She receives a symbolic pearl with great power and tells Coudair and Wheaton that she must spend her life with the man she loves.
In Brooklyn, the nightclub dancer Rusty Parker has a simple but happy life dancing in the McGuire's, owned by her boyfriend Danny. Rusty, Danny and Genius have a ritual on Friday nights: they order oysters in a bar, trying to find a pearl. The life of Rusty changes when she participates and wins a contest to be the cover page of the Vanity magazine. She is invited to work in a huge theater in Broadway, whose owner proposes to marry her. She loses her happiness and starts drinking in her new life style, missing the love of Danny and her old friends.
Chorine Rusty Parker wins out in a cover girl contest for 'Vanity' magazine because she's the image of her grandmother...the lost love of magazine mogul John Coudair. But her instant fame throws a spanner in her romance with Danny McGuire, her dancing mentor...
Rusty Parker wins a contest and becomes a celebrated cover girl; this endangers her romance with dancing mentor Danny.


A beautiful showgirl becomes a magazine's cover girl after winning a contest. The world opens up for her, and she leaves the small club owned by the man she loves and goes to Broadway. She finds that while her dreams have come true professionally, she is unhappy personally, though a Broadway producer wants to marry her.

