The legends tells the story of how the Toa came to be, chosen from the pool of Matoran youth in the great city of Metru Nui and, though physically transformed, hardly prepared for increased size and super heroic powers. Now in short order, the Toa--who babble and bicker like agitated adolescents--have to master their new gifts, impress their leader, and prepare to protect their home.
When Toa Lhikan, guardian of Metru Nui, is captured by the ruthless Dark Hunters, he passes his power onto six unsuspecting Matoran, who are reluctant to accept their new destiny as the Toa Metru. However, Metru Nui's governor, Turaga Dume, is even more resistant to welcoming his domain's new heroes, and the Toa Metru are separated following a dangerous test. Now, pursued by the Dark Hunters and guided by the Great Spirit Mata Nui, the Toa will venture across the six Metrus that make up the great city to reunite. But even as they reach their goal, a series of events have already been set in motion that will have devastating consequences for all in Metru Nui...and the Great Spirit himself....
In the sequel, Vakama tells a story that takes place a long time before Mata-Nui. He and the other turaga (Nokama, Whenua, Onewa, Matau, and Nuju) were chosen to be the Toa Metru of the island Metru-Nui. They must fight off the Morbutzkah (an evil plant that grows rapidly) to save Metru-Nui.
Six Matoran from the city of Metru Nui are chosen by Toa Lhikan to become mighty Toa Metru. However, all is not well in the city, as Matoran are vanishing, Turaga Dume is acting strangely, and Toa Lhikan is captured by a pair of menacing Dark Hunters. Toa Vakama and his five brave companions must find their mask powers, dodge the ruthless Vahki enforcers, and try to free Toa Lhikan, whilst revealing Metru Nui's darkest secret.
Six ordinary Matoran are chosen to become Toa, guardians of the legendary city of Metru Nui. But as they accustom to their new role, conflicts quickly arise between them, and a sinister plot is set in motion right under their noses.
