Following the conviction of her German father for treason against the U.S., Alicia Huberman takes to drink and men. She is approached by a government agent (T.R. Devlin) who asks her to spy on a group of her father's Nazi friends operating out of Rio de Janeiro. A romance develops between Alicia and Devlin, but she starts to get too involved in her work.
After Alicia Huberman's father is sentenced to 20 years in prison for being a Nazi spy, government agent T.R. Devin recruits her to spy on her father's friends and acquaintances in Rio. She's not too cooperative at first saying she isn't a rat but Devlin, knowing she isn't a Nazi sympathizer, appeals to her patriotism. Soon after their arrival in Rio, Alicia is reunited with Alexander Sebastian, the leader of the pro-Nazi group there and someone who once was very much in love with her. By now Alicia and Devlin have fallen in love and he's not happy when their boss Paul Preston suggests that she accept Sebastian's sudden proposal. Soon after they are married however, Sebastian realizes that Alicia is actually an American agent and he knows too well what his colleagues will do to anyone putting their plans at risk.
Because her father was a German spy who has committed suicide in prison, Government agent T.R. Devlin recruits Alicia Huberman to become an undercover agent. She has fallen in love with Devlin and is trying to repay her father's moral debt to America, the country she loves and feels her father has betrayed. Her assignment in Rio de Janeiro involves resuming an acquaintance with a wealthy German businessman, Alexander Sebastian, who has been attracted to her. She is to infiltrate his circle of German scientists. Against the wishes of his mother, Sebastian asks Alicia to marry him. She accepts, and they marry, though she is disappointed when Devlin raises no objections. After their marriage, Alicia explores the Sebastian mansion, but finds the wine cellar is locked. Devlin tells Alicia to invite him to a party at Sebastian's mansion. She is to take the key to the wine cellar from Sebastian's key ring without his knowing it. At the party, Devlin and Alicia investigate the wine cellar, where the find some bottles of sand. When Sebasian finds them together in the wine cellar, they convince him they are having a tryst. Noticing that the key was missing and then returned, Sebastian suspects Alicia of being a U.S. spy and his mother plots to eliminate her because she has become a woman who knows too much.
Alicia Huberman is a frivolous girl who loves drinks and men; her father was a German spy in USA and he has committed suicide in prison. Government agent Devlin asks the girl to spy on a group of her father's Nazi friends in Rio de Janeiro; this could be her chance to clean her guilty name. The girl falls in love with the agent, but he seems not to be attracted by the life she is living. Alicia accepts the duty and she goes to Brazil with Devlin. Alicia informs the US agents that Sebastian has asked her to marry him and asks whether she should go along with this. After a short discussion. they agree and so she does. During a party, Alicia secretly gets the key for the wine cellar and gives it to Devlin. They find some uranium dust hidden in Sebastian's canteen, but now he has discovered Alicia is a spy and he starts poisoning her day after day.
In 1946, in Miami, John Huberman is convicted for treason against the United States of America. His daughter Alicia Huberman, who is notorious for her affairs and drinking problem, but loyal to her country, is contacted by the cynical government agent T.R. Devlin for an assignment in Rio de Janeiro spying a network of Nazi's friends of her father. They travel together and Alicia falls in love with Devlin. However, when she is ordered to meet with the German Alexander Sebastian who has a crush on her, she feels disappointed with the lack of attitude of Devlin. Sooner Alexander proposes her and Devlin does not object when Captain Prerscott asks her to marry Alexander. Alicia snoops around the mansion and discovers that the wine cellar is locked. Devlin suggests to her that she asks Alexander to throw her a party to introduce her to the society in Rio and invites him.
A woman is asked to spy on a group of Nazi friends in South America. How far will she have to go to ingratiate herself with them?
