Cassidy Merteuil, the distant cousin of Kathryn Merteuil, arrives in Santa Barbara, California to attend college. There she meets Jason Argyle, a former friend from her high school also attending the school. Jason gets a roommate, Patrick Bales. Jason and Patrick form a mean-spirited partnership of seducing and dumping various young women on campus. When both of their latest conquests bore them, Jason bets Patrick if they can seduce a particular newcomer, who is under the wing of Cassidy. But nothing is what it seems as a triangle of Cassidy, Jason, and Patrick forms with each one scheming to outwit the other.
Two guys at a college prep school make wagers on seducing naive young girls, and then meet their match when they agree to see which one can seduce the most popular and devious girl who has her own agenda to everything.


This film once again portrays seduction and betrayal among the teenaged idle rich. Cassidy Merteuil (Kristina Anapau) is a beautiful, yet conniving and manipulative, student at an exclusive Santa Barbara college. Jason Argyle (Kerr Smith) and Patrick Bates (Nathan Wetherington) are roommates at the same school. After executing a devious plan to bed Cassidy, the latter encourages the two boys to compete against each other.
While Jason has to seduce Sheila (Natalie Ramsey), who is in a steady relationship with Michael (Tom Parker), Patrick has to seduce Alison (Melissa Yvonne Lewis), who is already engaged. After Jason succeeds in his part, Patrick decides to blackmail Alison using photos of her cheating on her boyfriend and rape her to fulfill his part of the bet. Jason and Cassidy strike up a relationship as Patrick is left unsatisfied and angry. Attempting to seduce Cassidy, she blatantly rejects him. After convincing Cassidy that the man she loves, Jason, is only staying with her because he wants to win the bet with Patrick that they had set, which was to see who could sleep with Cassidy first.
Seemingly angry with Jason, she succumbs to Patrick. Jason walks in on them later after they have sex and questions the situation. Cassidy replies that if he were to choose between her and Patrick, and he chose Patrick, then he won. Patrick snidely remarks that both Jason and Cassidy had been victims to his cruel game to show them that they underestimated the evil in themselves. When asked if he had ever been a victim, he tells them no, in which Cassidy reveals that this had been her plan all along. She had begun the little charade for Patrick and Jason to seduce Alison and Sheila, and before she had slept with Patrick, she had taken one of his sleeping pills, planning to tell the policemen that he had drugged and raped her. Patrick protests that he is not guilty and it is his word against hers but as he is lead away by the police he is warned that another victim has come forward, and he will get the punishment he deserves for the raping of Alison. Patrick is then taken away by the police, bewildered by the cunning of the seemingly innocent people around him.

