Johnny McQueen, leader of a clandestine Irish organization, has been hiding in the house of Kathleen and her mother, planning a hold-up that will provide his group with the funds needed to continue its activities. During the hold-up, things go sour: Johnny is wounded, cannot make it back to the hideout, and disappears in the back-alleys of Belfast. Immediately, a large-scale man-hunt is launched, and the city is tightly covered by the constabulary, whose chief is intent on capturing Johnny and the other members of the gang. Kathleen sets out in search of Johnny.
In Northern Ireland, Johnny McQueen is the leader of an underground organization that needs funds to keep it in action. Johnny was in prison and has broken jail. His hideout for the last six months is in the house of Kathleen Sullivan, who has fallen in love with him, and her grandmother. Johnny plots a factory heist to raise funds but the scheme does not work as planned and Johnny is wounded and kills a man. The clumsy driver of the runaway car panics and leaves Johnny on the street. The police organize a manhunt with a great number of policemen while Johnny's gang seeks him out. While trying to reach the hideout, Johnny is helped and betrayed while Kathleen and a priest try to find salvation for him.
In need of cash to distribute among its supporters, IRA gunman Johnny McQueen and 3 colleagues rob a local textile mill. They don't quite get away cleanly however - Johnny kills a clerk and is himself seriously wounded. Unable to get away with his colleagues, Johnny spends a long day trying to find shelter and medical care. The locals are for the most part supportive, though equally frightened of helping him. The police scour the city looking for him with the police inspector involved focusing a good deal of his attention on Kathleen, the young woman who loves him. When Kathleen sets out to find him, the police are close behind.
A wounded Irish nationalist leader attempts to evade police following a failed robbery. Action takes place in Belfast, Northern Ireland.
