Lora May Hollingsway, who grew up next to the wrong side of the tracks, married her boss who thinks she is just a gold digger. Rita Phipps makes as much money writing radio scripts at night as her school teacher husband does. Deborah Bishop looked great in a Navy uniform in WWII but fears she'll never be dressed just right for the Country Club set. These three wives are boarding a boat filled with children going on a picnic when a messenger on a bicycle hands them a letter addressed to all three from Addie who has just left town with one of their husbands. They won't know which one until that night.
In a small town, three couples are close friends: the upper class Brad Bishop went to the war and returned married with the insecure country girl and Navy military Deborah Bishop; the university professor George Phipps is married with the writer of silly screenplays of radio soap operas Rita Phipps, who makes more money than him and financially supports their home; and the wealthy tradesman Porter Hollingsway is married with the smart Lora Mae Hollingsway. In common, further to their friendship, the women hate and the men love the elegant and high-class Addie Ross. While going to a picnic in riverboat with the local students, the three wives receive a letter of their "friend" Addie Ross informing that she is running off with one of their husbands. Along the day, each woman recalls events that might have put her marriage in danger, while anxiously waiting for the end of the day.
The elegant, accomplished Addie Ross has left town for good. Her parting gesture, delivered to her three "best" friends as they left for a day trip, was a letter informing the women that she had absconded with one of their husbands --- which husband, she doesn't say. So each of the three wives spends the day reminissing about the ups and (mostly) downs of her marriage -- wondering if hers is the husband who has flown the coop.
A letter is addressed to three wives from their "best friend" Addie Ross, announcing that she is running away with one of their husbands: but she does not say which one.
