Chris Kody, imprisoned member of the US military, is released from prison and reunited with his old team in order to pursue a renegade scientist. The catch, the scientist has developed mind control technology that can make even your friends into heartless killers.
Chris Cody is a top-ranked mercenary who took part in an undercover operation to stop a major terrorist strike on U.S. soil -- a strike that the UN refused to believe was about to happen. However, Cody had to break a number of laws in order to do the job, and as a result, he's in a military prison. At the U.S. Embassy in Montevideo, Uruguay, Secret Service agents are briefing the ambassador with information about a terrorist base when the agents suddenly go haywire and kill her, and then themselves. Later, in Washington DC, intelligence analyst Dr. Chappell concludes that some sort of mind control device must have been used. A Delta Force commando team is sent to Uruguay to investigate, but they're quickly ambushed and captured. Taken to the terrorist base, they are brainwashed by Dr. Adrian Lehder, a scientist who heads a secret CIA experiment in mind control, programming soldiers to become virtually unstoppable killing machines when they're given the right commands. The Navy recruits Cody and his crew to take Chappell and special agent Fletcher with them in an effort to destroy the facility and take down Lehder. Cody is promised that in exchange, he and his will be freed and cleared of the alleged misconduct that they were accused of and receive $100,000 each. Suspicious, Cody quickly removes Fletcher from the mission, and Fletcher turns out to be in league with Lehder. Fletcher tips off Lehder, and they quickly abandon Lehder's facility, leaving behind a few American prisoners as Trojan horses. One team of Cody's men commandeers a submarine while the others secure the base and rescue the prisoners. The team fights its way past a tank, destroys the base, and escapes on the sub. But they end up stuck on the sub with some of the mind-controlled soldiers. After fighting off the soldiers and escaping from the sub, Cody and his crew realize that they must race to bring down Lehder before the rest of his soldiers kill them all.
Chris Kody, the world's best mercenary, is freed from prison -- but there's a catch. Kody must use his lethal weapons and fighting skills to stop a group of terrorists who have taken over a nuclear sub.


There are good guys and bad guys, but you can't tell them apart. Action film elements are added (explosions, fights, guns, grenades, helicopters, kitchen sinks). These ingredients are mixed incomprehensibly for the duration of the film, at the end of which Cody (Steven's character) comes out on top and savors a drink in a bar with his buddies. A bigger waste of film I've not seen in a long time.

