Sunny rents a room in a City called Goa in India. His room-mate is Sameer, who likes to fool around with woman, then dump them. He eventually falls in love, then gets dumped. Sorrowful and repentant, Sameer also has had many misadventures, especially when he ended up slapping an elderly man. Now Sameer has fallen for his next door neighbor, Rani. Now Sameer has two problems to overcome in order to wed Rani. The first he has to eliminate his competitor, none other than Sunny himself, who is also in love with Rani, and will do anything to marry her; and the second is Rani's father, ironically the very man who Sameer had slapped earlier. Will Sunny end up getting married to Rani, leaving Sameer to repent for the rest of his life?
Sameer is a hot-headed youngsters with a knack of getting into brawls. When his girlfriend dumps him, he is heartbroken and relocates to Goa to work as a lifeguard. He falls for his next-door neighbour Rani, but Rani dislikes him because Sameer had slapped her father by mistake. On top of it, Sameer's new roommate Sunny is a lecherous playboy who has the hots for Rani. This results into a zany battle of wits between Sameer and Sunny over who will win Rani's heart .
Sameer, fast at losing his temper is re-located to Goa in India. Where he rents a room, he likes to fool around with woman, then dump them. He eventually falls in love, then gets dumped. Sorrowful and repentant, Sameer also has had many misadventures, especially when he ended up slapping an elderly man. One day suddenly Sunny appears and became Sameer's room-mate. Now Sameer has fallen head over heels in love with his next door neighbor, Rani. Now Sameer has two problems to overcome in order to wed Rani. The first he has to eliminate his competitor, none other than Sunny himself, who is also in love with Rani, and will do anything to marry her; and the second is Rani's father, ironically the very man who Sameer had slapped earlier. A battle prevails between the two young men at this stage and the winner will have Rani's hand in marriage.
Hot-headed at a very young age, Sameer, has now matured but has not changed his ways. He has had many misadventures in life and now relocates to Goa at Mr. Duggal's house, while residing there he meets and falls in love with his next door neighbor, Rani but her father, Colonel Dugraj Singh does not approve of him since he is slapped by Sameer in public. To make matters worse for Sameer he has got a new room-mate, Sunny who creates more misunderstandings between Sameer and Dugraj and Rani herself begins to hate Sameer. While Sameer loves Rani truly, Sunny is just a misunderstanding between both. What will be the outcome of Sameer's love for Rani? How will he get rid of all obstacles in his life and be able to web Rani?
A Pandit predicts that Sameer Malhotra will grow up to be a very violent child; fast at losing tempers. This prediction does comes to light when Sameer starts to get himself involved in fights and brawls which force him to migrate taking up a supervisor work at sea. Sameer now take up resident by renting the room of Mr. Duggal; Sameer falls in love with his neighbor's retired Colonel Dugraj Singh's daughter, Rani. He finds his life turn up-side down when his room is shared by Sunny who is also attracted to Rani.
Sameer, fast at losing his temper is re-located to Goa where he falls in love with Rani. But Sameer's new roommate Sunny, has some plans of his own.
