Successful businessman Raj Malhotra (Akshay Kumar) has everything going for him, including a lovely wife (Kareena Kapoor). Just when he thinks things can't get any better, Sonia (Priyanka Chopra) - his ex-girlfriend, now the boss's wife - walks back into his life - and she wants Raj. After he rejects her sexual advances, she accuses him of rape. But he soon turns the tables on Sonia and sues her for sexual harassment along with the help of his wife Priya.
Priya Saxena is a law student, and would like to work for an accomplished lawyer. She responds to an advertisement by Barrister Ram Chotrani, but ends up in the wrong house - that of Raj Malhotra; falling in love with him and getting married. Raj is awaiting a promotion as Chief Executive Officer in his cell-phone manufacturing organization, and expects his wages to increase considerably, so he takes a loan, and purchases a spacious bungalow. During the Annual General Meeting of his organization, he does not get promoted, but instead is inducted as a Director, by the wife of the Chairman, Mrs. Sonia Roy. The reason behind his promotion is quite simple: Sonia wants to rekindle her affair with Raj - at any cost - by hook or crook - an affair that had left her pregnant in South Africa years ago.
Priya Saxena is a law student who goes to work for a barrister. But she leaves the address of the house behind and lands up in Raj's house where incidentally a house maid is awaited. Raj mistakes her for a house maid and makes her work for him and eventually falls in love. They marry and soon expect a baby and Raj buys a costly bungalow to live in as he expects promotion. But his new MD Sonia calls him home to discuss a problem and attempts to harass him sexually. When Raj refuses, she puts the blame on him and reports this to her husband Roy who demands a resignation from Raj. Raj files a case against Sonia. Priya who doesn't know about this is shocked but is determined to save her husband. It is at that time when Raj tells Priya that he had been involved with Sonia in the past and how they broke up due to differences of opinion. Sonia's lawyer cleverly projects the case in Soni'a favor. The climax is about how Priya collects evidence to support her husband which will help her win the case.
