Tamanna Sahni (Shilpa Shetty) is a dedicated staff member of a top advertising agency, her ideas and designs have mainly contributed to the success of the agency. She leaves for a college reunion and meets her college sweetheart Rohit (Salman Khan). They rekindle their love for each other and share some intimate moments together. Eventually Rohit leaves and Tamanna settles back into her normal daily routine. When her sister, Tanya, has an accident she decides to give her own blood to save her. However her doctor, Dr. Raisingh (Revathi), tells her that she has been tested positive for HIV. Tamanna's world turns upside down and she desperately tries to get into contact with Rohit but in vain. Her situation is soon spread around the office and she loses her job. Angered by her unfair dismissal she searches for a lawyer to fight her case. Eventually Tarun Anand (Abhishek Bachchan) agrees to represent her. The rest of the story shows if Tarun can help destroy the prejudice put upon Tamanna.
Tamanna is a charming, 26-year-old young woman, who breathes fresh air into the lives of everyone she meets. She works in an advertising agency, and her fresh, innovative ideas have made the agency successful. At her college reunion, Tamanna meets Rohit. In the romantic settings of the college, love blooms between them. But, Tamanna loses touch with Rohit. Although she tries to get in touch with him, all her efforts go in vain. The situation brings her life to a standstill, and she even loses her job in the process. Then, she meets a young man, Tarun, who brings a ray of hope into her life.
Tamanna Sahni is an accomplished business executive, lives with her radio-broadcaster sister, Tanya, and leads a fairly upper middle-class life. She does have a sweetheart in U.S.-settled Rohit Manchanda. She is thrilled when she finds out that Rohit has returned, they get together and spend some time in close intimacy. Then Rohit returns to the U.S., and is not heard of again. Six months later, when Tamanna is ready to go into an important meeting, she is summoned by Dr. Raisingh to attend the hospital immediately as Tanya has met with an accident. Tamanna drops everything and goes to the hospital, where she is asked to give some blood in exchange for the blood given to Tanya, which she does. A few days later, she gets another phone call from Dr. Raisingh - and it is after this phone call that Tamanna's life will be turned upside down; she will lose her job; her contacts; and all of her friends; her employer will accuse her of not performing properly, and the only way she can get someone to hear her story is by going to Court. Watch what happens when she actually gets to Court, and if at all she gets any justice.
