Jonathan Cooper is wanted by the police who suspect him of killing his lover's husband. His friend Eve Gill offers to hide him and Jonathan explains to her that his lover, actress Charlotte Inwood is the real murderer. Eve decides to investigate for herself, but when she meets the detective in charge of the case, she starts to fall in love.
Eve Gill, an aspiring young actress, shelters a fellow acting student, Jonathan Cooper, from the police. He is suspected of murdering the husband of his mistress, Charlotte Inwood, a famous singer. Jonathan claims that he became implicated when he tried to help Charlotte destroy the evidence. Eve's eccentric father, Commodore Gill, agrees to hide Jonathan in his house while she proves his innocence. To do this, Eve becomes Charlotte's temporary maid. Eve's Father devises a plan to force Charlotte to confess in front of the inspector investigating the case, Wilfred Smith. When the plan doesn't work, Eve tries blackmailing Charlotte into a confession while the police listen outside her dressing room. Charlotte agrees to pay, but insists that Jonathan is the real killer.
In London, the aspirant actress Eve Gill and her friend Jonathan Cooper are fleeing from the police in her car to her father's boat two hours far from the city. Eve has a crush on Jonathan that tells her that a couple of hours later, his mistress and actress Charlotte Inwood had come to his apartment with her dress covered of gore and telling that she had killed her husband. Jonathan decided to go to her apartment to bring a new dress for Charlotte, but her maid saw him in the crime scene and called the police that are chasing him as prime suspect. Eve's father Commodore Gill lodges Jonathan at his house and the man destroys the dress that is the evidence of the murder. Eve decides to investigate by herself to prove Jonathan's innocence and gets closer to Charlotte, working as temporary maid. Meanwhile Detective Wilfred Smith that is in charge of the case befriends Eve and they fall in love for each.
Hoping that she will help hide him, Jonathan Cooper confides in his friend Eve Gill, a novice acting student at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London, that he is helping famed stage actress Charlotte Inwood, with who he is in love, cover up her accidental killing of her husband. Jonathan believes he is in trouble because Charlotte, who was wearing a blood stained dress, asked Jonathan to retrieve a clean dress for her at her supposedly empty house where he suspects he was spotted by the maid, Nellie Goode, just prior to Nellie finding the dead body. Eve agrees to help Jonathan since she is in love with him, and who she believes is being framed by Charlotte. Charlotte's blood stained dress, which she asked Jonathan to destroy but which he still has in his possession, is a key piece of evidence in implicating Charlotte. When the police get involved, Eve tries to find out as much as she can from the lead investigator, Detective Inspector Wilfred Smith - who she ends up calling Ordinary Smith on his request - without divulging her connection to Jonathan. With her equally sleuthing father Commodore Gill behind her, Eve, trying to demonstrate her acting skills, also infiltrates the Inwood household acting as Charlotte's temporary plain housemaid and dresser. These dual roles becomes difficult for Eve to manage, especially in keeping them separated from Ordinary as he continues his investigation, and from Charlotte. In the process, Eve, who still wants to protect her friend Jonathan, ends up falling in love with Ordinary. But as those concerned get closer and closer to discovering the truth behind Inwood's death with Charlotte's blood stained dress a key item in trying to expose the killer, Eve, without realizing it, becomes a possible second target for the murderer.
A struggling actress tries to help a friend prove his innocence when he's accused of murdering the husband of a high society entertainer.


Eve Gill (Jane Wyman), an aspiring actress studying at RADA, is interrupted in the middle of a rehearsal by her friend, actor Jonathan Cooper (Richard Todd). The frantic Jonathan explains that he is the secret lover of flamboyant stage actress/singer, Charlotte Inwood (Marlene Dietrich). He claims that Charlotte visited him after killing her husband in an argument. She was wearing a bloodstained dress and Jonathan agreed to go back to her house and obtain another one. He found the body of Mr. Inwood at the residence, took a spare dress from the wardrobe and then tried to simulate a burglary gone wrong, only to be caught in the act by Charlotte's theatre maid and dresser, Nellie Goode (Kay Walsh). He is now on the run, wanted by the police.
Eve has long had a crush on Jonathan, but accepts that he is not interested in her romantically. She takes him to hide in a house near the coast owned by her father, Commodore Gill (Alastair Sim). Persuaded to help, the Commodore then notices that the blood on Charlotte's dress has been smeared on deliberately, not by accident, and he and Eve suspect that Jonathan has been framed. He angrily rejects this, destroying the dress and thus the best evidence they have on Charlotte.
Eve decides to investigate for herself. Posing as a reporter, she bribes Nellie Goode to pretend that she is ill and cannot work for Charlotte for a while. Eve then utilises her acting skills to affect the false identity and accent of a Cockney maid, claiming to be Nellie's cousin, "Doris Tinsdale", and takes the temporary job of replacing "her cousin" in order to infiltrate Charlotte's household.
In the course of trying to clear Jonathan, Eve meets Detective Inspector Wilfred Smith (Michael Wilding). As Eve, she and Smith get quite friendly and she has to go to great lengths to cover the fact that she is also "Doris" the maid when Smith visits Charlotte to ask further questions. As Eve, she is not able to get much from him on the progress of the investigation.
Out to court Eve, Smith visits her and her mother at their home in London. They are joined by the Commodore who drops subtle hints to Eve that Jonathan has left their house by the sea. Meanwhile, in spite of the tragedies that are surrounding her, Charlotte continues to perform at her West End musical show. She is secretly visited by Jonathan who wants her to accompany him abroad and tells her that he still has the dress with the bloodstain. Charlotte makes it clear that she will not give up her career for a hunted fugitive in any case she is secretly having an affair with her manager Freddie Williams (Hector MacGregor).
Eve again helps Jonathan escape the police and he hides out at the Gill's London residence. He thanks Eve for her support, but she feels torn since she is starting to fall in love with Wilfred Smith.
When Nellie Goode uncovers the deception that is going on, Eve manages to buy her off with blackmail money. With time running out, she persuades Smith to accompany her to a garden party where Charlotte is singing on stage in a large tent. During the performance, Commodore Gill gets a little boy to take a doll wearing a dress stained with blood, Gill's own, up to the stage. The sight causes Charlotte to collapse and Williams summons "Doris" for assistance. Seeing Eve attending to Charlotte and the stained doll's dress leads Smith to put two and two together.
Smith confronts Eve and the Commodore over their "amateur meddling". They persuade him to set Charlotte up into making a confession. Once the theatre has closed for the evening, Eve comes out of character and confronts Charlotte near a hidden microphone Smith and his men listening in to the conversation from the loudspeakers. Charlotte admits her involvement in her husband's death (making her an accessory) but denies committing the murder itself, blaming Jonathan.
Eve then sees that Jonathan has been brought to the theatre by the police, Smith having guessed that he was hiding in their house. She falls into hysterics, enabling Jonathan to get away. At this point Smith reveals to the Commodore that Jonathan really did kill Mr. Inwood and that he has actually killed before, though he got off on a plea of self-defence.
Hiding below stage, Jonathan confesses to Eve that Charlotte goaded him into killing her husband but actually in order to make way for Freddie Williams. The story he told Eve when she agreed to hide him was all lies. He has a temper that makes him lash out when provoked. When he threatens to kill her as well, Eve escapes and in the confusion that follows Jonathan is decapitated by the stage's safety curtain.

