When forced by the FBI to rat out mob boss Angelo Marcello, Carmine "The Beans" Pasquale is a wanted man on the lam being hunted by hit man Little Nicky Cappuccio. Taking along wife Gina and son Vincent, Carmine enters the federal witness relocation program and is given a new home and a new identity. Now known as The Cheeseman Family from Omaha, Nebraska, these former East Coast mobsters are relocated into the middle of a quiet, straight laced Mormon community in Utah where much to Carmine's frustration; he can't even find a decent cup of coffee let alone a horse track. Life in this small town becomes anything but ordinary once The Cheesemans move in. Many locals are weary, if not outright afraid of these rough around the edges outsiders, while others go annoyingly far out their way to try to embrace them. Despite the efforts of well meaning neighbor Michael Jaymes to help Carmine feel welcome, Carmine can't help but wonder if being this much of a fish out of water -- is actually better than "sleeping with the fishes."
A mafia family from New Jersey is placed in the witness relocation program to an all-Mormon community in Utah.


Carmine "The Beans" Pasquale is a mobster with a bad attitude, nagging
wife, and a love for coffee that borders on obsession. He and his family
must go into hiding before he testifies against his ex-boss. Unfortunately
this con who has a zen for all things entertaining and material, winds up
in the witness protection program in Salt Lake City, Utah. It is major
culture shock when Carmine, his wife and only son encounter large
families, helpful yet nosey neighbors and Mormons. They are befriended
by the Jaymes family and try to adjust with about as much enthusiasm as
a hyperactive child would find in watching paint dry. Carmine can't find a decent cup of coffee and real Italian deli items are impossible to come by. His craving for hard to find coffee could be his undoing. This is a film the entire family can comfortably watch together. Some of the best scenes involve a paint ball party. Olesya Rulin of Disney's "High School Musical," fame adds teen angst to this delighful little movie. Fun and entertaining performances are offered by Mark DeCarlo and Jeanette Puhich on a scale equal to the ethnic family antics seen in, "My Big Fat Greek Wedding." The acting and subject matter, while politically incorrect, is well done without
being overly stereotypical. Scott Christopher plays the straight man in
this comedy, almost underplaying his role. He is truly developing into
the "go-to" character actor of Mormon Cinema.

