Rakesh{Abhishek Bachchan} and Vimmi{Rani Mukherji} are two ambitious wannabes from small towns where their dreams are written off as outrageous daydreaming. They run away from their homes when bump into each other and decide to con for once to be financially sound until they make it big. Ironically, they find it too exciting. One follows the another as they adopt fake names [Bunty and Babli] for the same and they soon become the most popular anonymous criminals of the nation. At the heart of it kicks off their romance and they decide to continue their newly-found 'talent' as their means of living. Little do they know that their shenanigans have caught the fancy of ACP Dashrath Singh {Amitabh Bachchan} big time. He leaves no stone unturned in putting them behind the bars. Meanwhile, Rakesh and Vimmi have a child and decide to quit conning for their child's sake. However, its only then when Dashrath Singh manages to get their grab. But he release them after initial incredulity about their changed intentions. Years later, Dashrath resurrects them from their commonplace but dull living to employ their conning abilities, only for nation's aid this time.
Rakesh from Furstaganj; and Vimmi from Pankhipur; hail from small towns but dream big.... Rakesh , son of a ticket-checker , dreams of building a big business of his own . Vimmi , a seemingly simple homely girl , in fact aspires of making it big in the fashion world . When the small-town sensibilities around them threaten to nip their aspirations in the bud , they leave their respective homes for Mumbai - the city of opportunity . Their paths collide , and their identical backgrounds and similar nature of their dreams draws them close . They form a conning duo with "Bunty" and "Babli" being their respective aliases . In the beginning they con people for money and later just for fun . They fall in love , get married , and resort to a lifetime of conmanship . However , ACP Dashrath Singh is hot on their trail and has sworn to nab them .
Vimmi Saluja (Rani Mukerji) and Rakesh (Abhishek Bachchan) are two ambitious wannabes from small towns where their dreams are written off as outrageous daydreaming. They run away from their homes when bump into each other and decide to con for once to be financially sound until they make it big. Ironically, they find it too exciting. One follows the another as they adopt fake names [Bunty and Babli] for the same and they soon become the most popular anonymous criminals of the nation. At the heart of it kicks off their romance and they decide to continue their newly-found 'talent' as their means of living. Little do they know that their shenanigans have caught the fancy of ACP Dashrath Singh {Amitabh Bachchan} big time. He leaves no stone unturned in putting them behind the bars. Meanwhile, Rakesh and Vimmi have a child and decide to quit conning for their child's sake. However, its only then when Dashrath Singh manages to get their grab. But he release them after initial incredulity about their changed intentions. Years later, Dashrath resurrects them from their commonplace but dull living to employ their conning abilities, only for nation's aid this time.
Mr. Trivedi lives in Fursatganj, works as a ticket checker (TC) with the Indian Railways and supports his family, which consists of his wife, and only son, Rakesh. Trivedi would like his son to get employed, especially with the Railways, and become a T.C. like himself. But Rakesh is a slacker, he would rather be operating a bathroom with a shower, charging people some money to get a shower, then be confined to a routine job. So he decides to run away, somewhere he can make quick money. Then there is Vimmi, who lives in Punjab, is the daughter of Sikh parents, who would like her to get married and settled down. But Vimmi has other plans for instance becoming a super-model. Her attempts at applying for one are all in vain, and she decides to run away to Bombay. She meets up with Rakesh, both are attracted to each other, re-name themselves Bunty and Babli, and set out to bring the world to their knees. In Agra they get married in an informal ceremony without any priests or witnesses, and swear their love for each other. With that behind, they set out to con money out of wealthy business-owners and tycoon, including selling the prestigious Taj Mahal to the world's richest man. Babli is now pregnant, and then an opportunity comes their way to rob gold bars from a plane, little do they know that Deputy Commissioner of Police Dashrath Singh has been assigned to apprehend and bring them to justice, perhaps just in time before they pull their newest heist.
Unhappy with his life and circumstances, Rakesh, the son of a railway employee in India, wants to become rich very quickly. He quarrels with the rest of his family, and leaves for Mumbai city. On the way there he meets with another runaway, Vimmi, a wanna-be model and actress, they end up getting attracted to each other, and together they carry out a rash of daring robberies - prompting the authorities to ask Dashrath, a senior ranking police-man to apprehend them and bring their respective careers to an abrupt halt. Will Rakesh and Vimmi - now known as Bunty and Babli - let Dashrath end their careers that easily?
Two mismatched characters go on a wild road trip in Uttar Pradesh and, while being dogged by a policeman, fall in love.


Bunty and Babli are two avid dreamers. Two free souls born into caged small town realities. They grow weary of being two specks on the horizon. They desire the horizon itself.
And so they pack their aspirations in worn out bags, whip a scarf of confidence around their proud necks and set forth. On a journey across the length and breadth of the country, spinning circles around the people they meet.
Born Rakesh in a lethargic, lead-eyed Fursatganj, he is a man of schemes, ideas, invention and restlessness. His small Uttar Pradesh town begins to feel a bit too small for his king size plans.
He wants to be amongst the richest in the world. He wants to be in jacuzzis. He wants to be in limousines. He wants to be a big blip on the radar of history. He wants to be big black typo in newspaper headlines.
In short, he wants out of here.
In a parallel universe, in another slump-backed, crinkle nosed small town called Pankinagar, Vimmi, our heroine, faces the same dilemma. Does she follow the course every other young marriageable girl does? Or does she carve new fatelines on her soft as butter palms?
In her mind (but in her mind alone!) shes the foxiest thing to ever have hit a ramp. Shes the hottie the world can just gape at but never touch. She is Miss India.
So she too decides to fly the coop.
Somewhere along their individual journeys, Rakesh and Vimmi meet, flogged by circumstance but unwilling to concede.
In a moment of mistaken truth, Bunty and Babli are born. And the world gets turned on its head!
We follow the duo through caper after caper, in which they meet rajahs, powerbrokers, shaadi bandwallahs, millionaires, investors, leaders, ministers, banjaras, elephants, explorers, hoteliers, chai boys and one very, very upset policeman!
The world sits up and takes wide eyed notice of this pair.
Bunty is the Rakesh that Rakesh always dreamt of being, with a delicious twist.
Babli is the Vimmi that Vimmi never thought shed become, with another delicious twist.
Together they are more than the sum of their parts.
Together they are spiritual gurus, bureaucrat and secretary, gangster and moll, business partners, hen pecked husband and pregnant wife, lawyer and sexually harassed client, vagabonds, caught-in-a-downpour lovers and lots, lots more. And they seem to be loving every minute of it.
Their escapades play out against backdrops as varied as the Taj Mahal, the banks of the Ganges, the saffrons of Benaras, the browns of Kanpur and Lucknow, the whites of Mussoorie, the tinkling bells of Rishikesh and Hardwar, the skies of Delhi and all across the vein like network of the Great Indian railways and highways.
Every mundane reality in every dusty corner of India is flushed out of its slumber by a splash of Bunty aur Babli excitement in this, the tale of two dreamers that blaze the sky like comets. But do not die. Like all good comets they promise to reappear again. And they do. And how they do all of that is, seriously, the stuff legends are made of.

