When a mobster's wife decides to testify against his evil deeds, she goes under cover to avoid being killed. Now that he's coming to trial, she has to be escorted across country by train in order to testify. Cop Walter Brown and his partner are assigned the task, but the mob are on their trail.
Detective Sergeant Walter Brown and his longtime partner Detective Sergeant Gus Forbes are assigned to travel to Chicago to bring the mobster's wife Mrs. Frankie Neal to testify to the grand jury in Los Angeles against the mafia. They are ambushed at Mrs. Neal's building and Forbes is murdered by a mobster wearing a coat with fur. Brown and Neal travel by train to LA and soon the detective realizes that there are hit men hired by the mafia to kill Mrs. Neal. However, the assassins do not know how she looks like, and Brown hides Neal in Forbes' room. Brown meets Ann Sinclair in the restaurant, who is traveling with her annoying son Tommy and his nanny, and the mobsters believe that she is Mrs. Neal. Now Brown has to protect not only the unpleasant Mrs. Neal, but also Ann from the mobsters.
LAPD Detectives Walter Brown and Gus Forbes have a one hour turnaround in Chicago before heading back to Los Angeles on the next train. The item which they have to pick up in Chicago is the widow of slain mobster Frankie Neall, she who has been staying in a Chicago safe house and will be transported to LA to testify in front of the Los Angeles Grand Jury. Although she has neither confirmed or denied, the speculation is is that she has or knows who is on Frankie's payoff list, the people on the list who will stop at nothing to stop her from handing over or divulging the names. When an assassination attempt is made on them just as they are leaving the safe house, Brown knows that the criminals know who he and Forbes are, but still have no idea what Mrs. Neall looks like. As such on the train, Brown has to remain in communication with a hidden Mrs. Neall, while still protecting her identity from everyone unknown to him. On board, one man is obviously watching him, although Brown is uncertain who else on board may be in cahoots with him. But Mrs. Neall may have her own ideas how best not only to protect herself but how to come out the other end with the most lucrative deal. Adding to the complications are a young boy named Tommy who believes Brown is a robber, an obese 265 pound man named Sam Jennings who may be working on the criminal side, and a young woman named Ann Sinclair who Brown constantly runs into and thus may be mistaken for Mrs. Neall.
A woman planning to testify against the mob must be protected against their assassins on the train trip from Chicago to Los Angeles.
