The oceans during the late 1860-92s are no longer safe; many ships have been lost. Sailors have returned to port with stories of a vicious narwhal (a giant whale with a long horn) which sinks their ships. A naturalist, Professor (Pierre) Aronnax, his assistant, Conseil, and a professional whaler, Ned Land, join an US expedition which attempts to unravel the mystery.
In 1868, a monster is terrorizing the seas, sinking ships! Three unlikely companions board a warship in search of the beast, only to find out the hard way it is an engine of destruction: a submarine boat. The trio is captured by the vessel's commander, Captain Nemo, and accompany him on a journey of adventure and discovery as the Nautilus and her occupants travel some 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
A ship sent to investigate a wave of mysterious sinkings encounters the advanced submarine, the Nautilus, commanded by Captain Nemo.


20,000 Leagues Under the Sea is a film by Richard Fleischer based on the famous Jules Verne novel written in the 19th century.
The film begins with the first page of the book, talking about rumors of a mysterious sea monster that prowled the South Seas in 1868. The camera switches to an old-fashioned ship sailing through apparently calm seas. A long, dark object with glowing lights like eyes at its head appears a short distance away from the ship. It drives straight toward the ship, making a loud whirring noise of a motor. It collides head-on with the ship, sinking it, and sails off.
A man standing before a crowd in San Francisco offers a bonus to any man who will ship with an expedition to hunt the mysterious "monster". Another man interrupts him, warning the crowd not to sign; they will never make it back to collect their pay. He brings up an elderly seaman who tells a dramatic story of how the "monster" sunk the ship he was on, and proceeds to give a vivid description of the monster. A young sailor, Ned Land, challenges the old sailor's claim and makes fun of the way his breath smells. His companion, Casey, hits him over the head with the sailor's cane and a fight breaks out. The police arrive and drag Ned Land away.
Farther down the street, French professor Pierre Aronnax and his apprentice, Conseil, are trying to find a ship that will take them to Saigon, but are told that no one will sail through the South Seas. Three reporters ask for a statement from the professor about the monster, but he gives them an ambiguous answer. Back at their apartments, Aronnax reads the paper and sees that the reporters wildly misquoted him, claiming that he believes in a huge seamonster.
Apologies, this is incomplete, I will finish it later...

