Colonial tea planter John Wiley, visiting England at the end of World War II, wins and weds lovely English rose Ruth and takes her home to Elephant Walk, Ceylon, where the local elephants have a grudge against the plantation. Ruth's delight with the tropical wealth and luxury of her new home is tempered by isolation as the only white woman in the district; by her husband's occasional imperious arrogance; by a mutual physical attraction with plantation manager Dick Carver; and by the hovering, ominous menace of the hostile elephants...
After a whirlwind romance in England, Ruth marries John Wiley and returns with him to his tea plantation in Ceylon. She arrives to find a huge house full of servants and learns that she's the only European woman in the area with the other tea planters being bachelors. Most annoying however is the veneration of her husband's late father who is still adored by Europeans and locals alike. He is the man who built Elephant Walk, their plantation house, so named by the fact that it was built in the direct path used by elephants to get to water. Dick Carver is one of the few who has never bought to the myth of the great founder and Ruth and he hit it off from the start. With her husband frequently away working, Ruth and Dick develop feelings for one another. A drought and the ensuing cholera epidemic will decide everyone's future.
John Wiley takes his new bride, Ruth to "Elephant Walk", a tea plantation in Ceylon which happens to be on the path where elephants roam. Soon Ruth discovers the truth about John's plantation and the effect it has on him. She then tries to leave him with the help of Dick but a cholera epidemic breaks, followed by elephants destroying the plantation. These tragedies make Ruth and John face their true feelings.
The young bride of a rich planter finds herself the only white woman at Elephant Walk tea plantation, British Ceylon.


A young bride of a rich tea plantation owner tries to cope with life in Ceylon (now Indonesia) with her new husband. Bride Ruth (Elizabeth Taylor) comes to realize that her groom John Wiley (Peter Finch) still lives in the shadow of his late father, the "Governor." Every weekend John hosts all the planters from the area for three-day stag parties involving non-stop alcohol consumption and indoor bicycle polo. Ruth is the first non-native woman to be seen in the area in two years, and only Elephant Walk Plantation overseer Richard "Dick" Carver (Dana Andrews) can provide a listening ear. But after rebuffing Dick's advances, he leaves for Paris. However, John breaks his leg before the next plane out, so Dick returns to take up the slack. Ruth learns the plantation is named for the fact that it sits astride a major pachyderm trail. In the midst of a severe drought, cholera breaks out. The plantation is quarantined, and the natives who serve as "beaters" to keep the elephants away fall ill or desert the Wiley homestead. A herd of elephants breaks into the main house, setting it on fire while Ruth (exhausted from fighting the epidemic) is napping. Back on his feet, a reformed John rushes in to carry Ruth to safety. He promises to build Ruth a new place, "somewhere else."

