Linus and David Larrabee are the two sons of a very wealthy family. Linus is all work -- busily running the family corporate empire with no time for a wife and family. David is all play -- technically employed in the family business but never showing up for work, spending all his time entertaining, and having been married and divorced three times. Sabrina Fairchild is the young, shy, and awkward daughter of the household chauffeur, who has been infatuated with David all her life, but whom David hardly notices till she goes away to Paris for two years and returns an elegant, sophisticated, beautiful woman. Suddenly, she finds she's captured David's attention, but just as she does so, she finds herself also falling in love with Linus, and she finds that Linus is also falling in love with her.
The well-to-do Larrabee sons are as different as night and day. Older brother Linus is all business, running the family corporate empire while younger brother David, a playboy, chases after whatever pretty face next comes his way - all except Sabrina Fairchild's, the chauffeur's daughter. She's been infatuated with David for years without reciprocation. That changes after she's been away to Paris for two years. Returning as an elegant, sophisticated beauty, she finally catches David's eye, but the timing stinks. The Larrabee family is sealing a business deal by marrying David off to a sugar baron's beautiful daughter. To save the deal, Linus steps in with calculating intent on wooing Sabrina away from David then sending her back to Paris, alone but highly recompensed. But in matters of the heart, sophisticated Linus finds himself more caught up with Sabrina than he even remotely anticipated.
Sabrina is the young daughter of the Larrabee family's chauffeur who has been in love with David Larrabee for all her life. David is very spoiled and crazy for women, and has been totally ignoring Sabrina for years. When Sabrina goes to Paris for a few years, she returns a very attractive and sophisticated woman, and David is quickly drawn to her. David's brother Linus sees this and fears that David's imminent wedding with a very rich woman may be endangered. If the wedding is canceled, so will a great corporate deal with the bride's family. So, Linus tries to keep Sabrina off his brother, and the best way to do so is by charming her himself.
A playboy becomes interested in the daughter of his family's chauffeur. But it's his more serious brother who would be the better man for her.


The daughter of a chauffeur (Sabrina, played by Hepburn) has been madly in love with the youngest playboy son (David, played by Holden) of a Long Island society family. Although he was never serious about the young woman, she dreams he will one day fall madly in love with her. She moves to Paris to become a chef, and returns to Long Island a changed woman on the outside. Inside, Sabrina is still madly in love with David. When David invites her to a ball at the mansion, she is delirious with delight. This affair, however, jeopardizes not only David's impending marriage, but a business deal brokered by his older, responsible brother, Linus (played by Bogart). Linus arranges an unfortunate "accident" that lays David up for several days. Linus then proceeds to woo Sabrina - even convincing David he's doing this for him. Linus pretends that Sabrina has made him curious about what it would be like to leave his corporate world behind and live in Paris. Sabrina believes she's seeing a "secret side" of Linus Larabee, and starts falling in love with this new Linus. Linus entices Sabrina to run away with him and move back to Paris - even though he has no intentions of leaving with her. At the last minute, Linus realizes he cannot hurt her like this and arranges to send David (who has recovered from the accident) in his place. David realizes Sabrina no longer loves him, and (surprisingly) his older brother is in-love with Sabrina. So David arranges to have true love find its course, and the two lovers sail to Paris.

