When Grandduke Charles, the prince-regent of Carpathia, a fictitious Balkan country which could start a European war by switching alliances, visits London for the coronation of the new British King in 1911, and spends his one evening off at the Coconut Girl Club, the reputed stickler for protocol is so charmed by a clumsy American understudy that he orders his British attaché to invite her to the embassy for a private supper. Being overlooked and understanding German, she learns of the repressive attitude of the regent and the plans of his reformist, pro-German minor son, King Nicholas, to take over power by surprise, but doesn't dodge and tries to reconcile father and son. The queen-dowager decides to make her lady-in-waiting for the coronation day, so she stays in the picture to everyone else's surprise.
An American showgirl becomes entangled in political intrigue when the prince regent of a foreign country attempts to seduce her.


Firstly, the picture as shown above doesn't accurately represent the film's characters' costumes. Secondly the plot summary as written left out a few key points, I feel.
While the Grand Duke is charmed by her clumsiness, it is not for altruistic or moral purposes that he invites her to the embassy.. but rather immoral ones of a carnal nature which she predicts and then rebuffs. Seeing that there is more to him than meets the eyes... she decides to hold all the proverbial cards to fix what she can fix and falls in love with him in the process and he with her, or rather her abilities in showing him about love. The queen mum invites her to be a lady in waiting for a day, much to the chagrin of the Grand Duke and the his son invites her to the coronation ball .. also much to the chagrin of the Grand Duke. But her unwavering honesty and insistance on staying true to her American upbringing and forcing him to declare what he REALLY wants .... love ... causes the Duke to develop feelings that he's never felt before, "I've been positively giddy". When he wants to give her more.. she sees that it would never work in their two different worlds and steps back from the brass ring he is offering her. Great film. Great showcasing of Marilyn Monroe. I think, too, that it showcased what she was wanting vs how she was perceived. The american public has been playing the role of the Grand Duke during this entire love affair with her. To quote another sex symbol/star Rita Hayworth ... "they go to bed with Gilda but wake up to Rita Hayworth".

