Christopher Emmanuel Balestrero - Manny to his friends - is a string bassist, a devoted husband and father, and a practicing Catholic. His $85 a week gig playing in the jazz combo at the Stork Club is barely enough to make ends meet. The Balestreros' lives will become a little more difficult with the major dental bills his wife Rose will be incurring. As such, Manny decides to see if he can borrow off of Rose's life insurance policy. But when he enters the insurance office, he is identified by some of the clerks as the man that held up the office twice a few months earlier. Manny cooperates with the police as he has nothing to hide. Manny learns that he is a suspect in not only those hold ups, but a series of other hold ups in the same Jackson Heights neighborhood in New York City where they live. The more that Manny cooperates, the more guilty he appears to the police. With the help of Frank O'Connor, the attorney that they hire, they try to prove Manny's innocence. Regardless of if they manage to prove Manny's innocence or find the actual hold-up man, the situation may cause irreparable damage on the Balestreros.
Manny Ballestero is an honest hardworking musician at New York's Stork Club. When his wife needs money for dental treatment, Manny goes to the local insurance office to borrow on her policy. Employees at the office mistake him for a hold-up man who robbed them the year before and the police are called. The film tells the true story of what happened to Manny and his family.
The true story of Manny Balestrero, a musician unjustly accused of armed robbery. In classic Hitchcock form, Balestrero vehemently protests his innocence but acts thoroughly guilty, leading a host of policemen and witnesses to finger him as the thief. The trial goes badly for Manny, but life is worse for his wife, Rose, who falls apart under the strain of his ordeal.
True story of an innocent man mistaken for a criminal.


The film examines the life of Manny Balestrero (Henry Fonda), who works as a musician in the Stork Club in New York. He and his wife have very little money. When his wife needs some dental work, Manny attempts to borrow on her policy at the insurance office. Unfortunately, he closely physically resembles an armed robber who held up the office twice before, so the police are called. Manny is arrested and charged with the crime. Manny is identified by several witnesses, and he nervously misspells a word in the same way as the word appeared on the robbery note. His defense attorney, Frank O'Connor, says it's a case of mistaken identity. Manny had a swollen jaw during the time of the first hold-up, which the teller never reported but which she would have seen had Manny been the robber. He had played cards throughout the day of the second hold-up, but his alibi defense takes a serious hit when it turns out that both his card partners that he could trace had died in the meantime. The stress of all this has a devastating effect on his wife, who slowly seeps down into depression, to the point where she is institutionalized.
The trial begins but midway through, a juror makes a remark which prompts the judge to grant a mistrial. While awaiting re-trial, the real robber is arrested while trying to hold-up a grocery store. Manny is exonerated. He visits his wife at the sanatorium to tell her the good news but she remains in an apathic state. However, the film closes with an on-screen note that reveals she eventually recovers and the family move to Florida
source:Wikipedia


