In the 1890s a team of British archaeologists discover the untouched tomb of Princess Ananka but accidentally bring the mummified body of her High Priest back to life. Three years later back in England a follower of the same Egyptian religion unleashes the mummy to exact grisly revenge on the despoilers of the sacred past.
In1895, in Egypt, the British archaeologists John Banning, his father Stephen Banning and his uncle Joseph Whemple discover the tomb of Princess Ananka. Stephen finds inside the tomb The Scroll of Life and reads it, awaking The Mummy of Anaka's keeper and former lover Kharis. He has a heart attack and goes insane. The Egyptian Mehemet Bey that worships Ananka steals the scroll and controls The Mummy. Three years later, in England, Stephen is an intern in a mental institution and John has married his fiancée Isobel. However the fanatic Mehemet decides to use The Scroll of Life to revenge those that have desecrated Anaka's tomb. The Mummy attacks Stephen and Joseph; however, when The Mummy attacks John, Isobel that resembles Ananka saves her husband. But will she be saved from The Mummy?
Three British archeologists discover the grave of an important Egyptian female priest who has died about four millenia ago. But when they open it a bad curse falls on them for having woken up the mighty guard of the grave who was buried with the priest.
In 1895, a team of archaeologists uncover the tomb of Princess Ananka, an Egyptian high priestess. They are warned not to disturb the tomb but in doing so, inadvertently bring to life the mummy of Kharis, the high priest who loved the Princess. While in the tomb alone, something happens to frighten the leader of the expedition, Stephen Banning. Three years later an Egyptian, Mehemet Bey, transports the mummy to England to seek revenge against those who desecrated the Princess' tomb. It is left to Stephen Banning's son John to unravel the mystery and to protect his wife Isobel, who bears a striking resemblance to the Princess.
In 1895, British archaeologists find and open the tomb of Egyptian Princess Ananka with nefarious consequences.
