In the heady atmosphere of Rio's carnival, two people meet and fall in love. Eurydice, a country girl, has run away from home to avoid a man who arrived at her her looking for her. She is convinced that he was going to kill her. She arrives in Rio to stay with her cousin Serafina. Orfeo works as a tram conductor and is engaged to Mira - as far as Mira is concerned anyways. As Eurydice and Orpheus get to know one another they fall deeply in love. Mira is mad with jealousy and when Eurydice disappears, Orfeo sets out to find her.
In Rio, Orfeo is a trolley conductor and musician, engaged to Mira. During Carnival week, he sees Eurydice, who's fled her village in fear of a stalker; it's love at first sight. Her cousin Sarafina, with whom she stays in Rio, is a friend of Orfeo and Mira, so the star-crossed lovers meet again. Later, during the revels, wearing Sarafina's costume, Eurydice dances a provocative samba with Orfeo. Not only is Mira enraged when her rival is unmasked, but she is being stalked by Death: Eurydice is in danger, pursued through noisy crowds and a morgue. Can Orfeo conduct her to safety? Don't look back.
A retelling of the Orpheus and Eurydice myth, set during the time of the Carnaval in Rio de Janeiro.


In Rio, a group of black people playing musical instruments shimmies its way past a bunch of women carrying containers on their heads. Carnival is approaching. One black woman runs to the edge of a cliff and looks over it. She is Serafina (
Léa Garcia
). She watches a boy play with a kite blowing in the wind.
On the coast, a boat crowded with boogieing black people reaches a pier. A blind man walks nearby, bumping into Eurydice (
Marpessa Dawn
) as she stares at the water. He frightens her. He gives her a yellow lei to help her forget about it. She offers to help him around; he says that he knows Rio well and will manage.
Eurydice leaves the blind man, mixing into a crowd of dancing people nearby. She passes merchants selling goods and more dancers. Eurydice reaches a barer part of the city, and is met by a trolley conducted by Orfeu (
Breno Mello
), who whistles at her and tells her to come aboard. Then, a different man grabs her and she jumps onto the moving vehicle.
Orfeu stops the trolley at the end of the line. A man named Hermes (
Alexandro Constantino
) asks him if he's going to get his paycheck. Orfeu notices Eurydice sitting alone in the back of the streetcar and calls out to her. She doesn't know her way around. Orfeu calls Hermes to help her find her way to her cousin's house, then steps over to a window and gets his paycheck from a man. A woman named Mira (
Lourdes de Oliveira
), about to cross a road, calls out to Orfeu. Hermes asks Eurydice if she's going to Carnival. She says no; he tells her that she'll end up going and how to get there.
Orfeu asks Eurydice as she walks away if she got directions; she says yes. Mira asks him why he's giving Eurydice so much attention, and reminds him that she and he are going to get a marriage license. They walk off.
Orfeu and Mira enter a government office and she tells him to fix his clothes. Orfeu tells a man at a desk that he and Mira are getting married. The man asks Orfeu his name, and when Orfeu answers, the man responds that the bride's name must be Eurydice. "Orpheus loves Eurydice," the man says, "Everyone knows that." When Mira asks what this is all about, the man replies that he was referencing an old story.
Outside the government building, Brazilian music is being played and Mira dances heartily to it. She draws close to Orfeu nearby, and asks him if he's going to buy her a ring since they're engaged. Orfeu answers that he has to get his guitar out of hock with Carnival coming tomorrow. He tells Mira to get her own ring as he has no money, and she tells him that she can loan him money for one.
At the pawn shop, Orfeu is handed his guitar. He plays it a bit, then he is bumped by a man carrying a phonograph. The man says that the pawn shop workers aren't interested in his phonograph, and has Orfeu hold it for him. Orfeu tells the man he's onto him. The man says he needs 100 cruzeiros for Carnival, so Orfeu gives them to him. The man tells Orfeu it's his phonograph now, but takes the horn piece of it away, pretending to blow through it. Orfeu runs into Mira, who tells him that he got "a good deal." She shows him a ring she wears, telling him he owes her 110 bucks.
In her house, Serafina examines a bright-colored dress. A merchant comes to her window, offering her some bread. Serafina says she spent all of her money on her costume for Carnival. There's a knock at her door. She answers it, and standing outside is Eurydice. Serafina lets her inside, saying she thought it was Chico Boto, her boyfriend, at the door. Serafina asks Eurydice if she came for Carnival. Eurydice says she ran away, and is scared of a man who came to her farm and chased her. Eurydice believes the man wants to kill her. Serafina asks her if he knows she's with her; Eurydice says no. Serafina tells her to erase it from her mind, remarking that she must be hungry. They have no money, but she tells Eurydice that "the Portugese grocer will do anything for a kiss."
The two women run across a group of musicians playing instruments, and Serafina dances with Zeca, a boy who shakes a tamborine. Eurydice meets another boy, Benedito, who gives her an amulet. Eurydice says she will keep it forever; Benedito asks her, "Even after I die?" Serafina tells him to run along, and the women make their way to the grocer's place of business.
Eurydice and Serafina get to the grocer's place, and the latter woman places her hands over his eyes. He immediately says that this woman, not knowing who she is, is going to ask him for credit. At first, he doesn't want to give her and Eurydice a break, but after they both kiss him, he looks eager to help them. The grocer mentions a light-complexioned woman's man. A woman standing nearby tells her that some women are "smarter" than she is -- to which she replies, "I don't care. That's all just talk." Serafina says, if this guy is getting married, it's too bad for him. The woman who mentioned some women being "smarter" than others says that the lucky couple is headed their way. Serafina tells Eurydice to take what she wants and heads toward the couple: Orfeu, toting his guitar, and Mira.
Serafina confronts Orfeu, asks him if he's getting married, calling him "poor baby," then goes over to Mira, hugging her in an effort to distract her from what Orfeu is doing. Orfeu runs across the light-complexioned woman, whom he clearly knows, then leaves, saying he has to tune his guitar for rehearsal.
Orfeu steps into Serafina's house and begins tuning his guitar. Zeca and Benedito come in; the latter boy asks Orfeu if he can really make the sun rise by playing his guitar. The boy asks him if he can make the sun rise tomorrow. Orfeu agrees to this, since Carnival is then. Zeca says he'd love to make the sun rise, so Benedito tells Orfeu to lend him his guitar so he can make a melody up. Orfeu says no, explaining that the guitar is very old, and pointing out where it says, "Orfeu is my master" on it. Orfeu says that there was an Orpheus before him, and there may be another when he is gone, but for now, he is the boss of the guitar.
Orfeu tells the boys not to be sad, and starts performing a song he just wrote for them. As he does, Eurydice steps into the house through a different door. She dances to Orfeu's song. Orfeu notices two women fighting outside through a window and tells the boys to take his guitar, saying that they didn't see him. Orfeu runs outside where he can watch what happens next through a window. The two women step into the house, asking where Orfeu is. Zeca says he left with a different woman, and the women leave. Zeca plays Orfeu's guitar.
Orfeu notices Eurydice and asks her what she's doing there, then realizes that her aforementioned cousin is Serafina. He says that they are already close friends. She reminds him that her name is Eurydice, and he brings up the story that "Orpheus loves Eurydice." Orfeu tells her to remember the story how thousands of years ago, Orpheus was sad, but one day, Eurydice spoke to him of lost kisses. He starts to kiss her, but she pushes him away; he responds that she's "too young to remember." But she says she remembers, and it was the melody that she liked best of all. She steps outside and Orfeu follows her to where she sits. Orfeu puts his hand on Eurydice's hand, telling her to forgive him. He places his head on her hand, and they share a tender moment.
The boys rejoin Orfeu and tell him that people are waiting for him at rehearsal. He tells Eurydice that he has to go. Orfeu says he'll perform for her, asking her if she'll come to Carnival. She says yes. Orfeu leaves with one of the boys, carrying his guitar.
At rehearsal that night, scores of people dance to the exhilarating music, including Mira, Serafina, Zeca, and Orfeu. It's a joyful celebration. Mira asks Orfeu why he's not paying attention to her, and he responds that he has no time for her. Eurydice, standing by Benedito, watches Orfeu. Benedito says Orfeu is the sun, and Mira is the Queen of the Night. Eurydice asks the boy who Mira is; he says that she's Orfeu's fiancée. Eurydice is dismayed to hear this last bit of information. Orfeu asks Mira and Serafina if they've tried on their costumes; the women head off together.
Orfeu sees Eurydice sitting down, and invites her into the crowd. They fervently dance with each other. Orfeu then pulls Eurydice out of the dancers' area into a room where women work to give her a costume. Serafina steps into the room, and Orfeu says he wants a nice costume for Eurydice. Serafina says that he doesn't know her. Serafina realizes that Orfeu is in love with Eurydice, and tells the women to leave Eurydice to her. As Orfeu starts to depart, Zeca steps toward him and says that a man is looking for Eurydice.
Eurydice becomes worried; Serafina tells Zeca to tell the man that she's gone. Zeca walks off. Serafina then screams as she sees Death (
Ademar Da Silva
), a man standing outside the place's window, dressed in a skeleton costume. Eurydice says, "It's him," as he turns and leaves. Mira steps into the room. Eurydice runs away, and Mira asks what happened. Serafina tells her that her cousin Eurydice is scared, as Orfeu runs outside after her. Mira asks, "Her name's Eurydice?", and Serafina pursues her cousin. Mira runs to the window, and Orfeu heads toward it, carrying a bloodied Benedito. Benedito says he pursued the man in the costume, but the man threw him to the ground. When asked where the man went, Benedito says he headed toward a cliff. Zeca says the man went the other way.
Orfeu puts Benedito down and chases after Death. He's stopped by Mira, who asks him who this Eurydice is and if they had an affair. He tells her to let him pass; she orders him to stay and he says no. "If you go . . . " Mira says, but doesn't finish her thought. Orfeu goes looking for Eurydice.
Eurydice runs to Serafina's house, stops, looks into it, then keeps fleeing. Chico gets up in a bed inside of it, asking, "Is that you? Serafina, answer me!" Serafina gets there next, looking around the place, then Chico scares her from behind. Serafina askes Chico where her cousin went, explaining that she must find her, then he says he came from Montevideo to see her, and Orfeu runs in, also looking for Eurydice. Chico points him in the right direction, and Orfeu heads off.
Eurydice rushes into a low cul-de-sac and is cornered by Death. She pounds on a wall, then Orfeu leaps down between her and Death. Death tries to trip Orfeu, who pulls out a knife for protection. Eurydice warns Orfeu, "he'll kill you," then faints in his arms. Death tells Orfeu that they'll meet again later and departs. Orfeu carries the unconscious Eurydice away.
Orfeu takes Eurydice back into Serafina's house, where there are roosters and dogs walking around. Orfeu notes that Chico showed up and asks Eurydice if she would like to stay there. She says yes. Orfeu states that Eurydice need not be frightened. A dog noisily pulls at a piece of fabric in Orfeu's hand, and Serafina calls to him from another room, next to Chico. Serafina listens to the wall, to try to figure out what's going on in the next room. Serafina says her cousin is in good hands. Chico asks, Didn't she run off?" Serafina tells Chico to open his mouth and close his eyes. She slams a thick slice of watermelon that she's been feeding him into his mouth, sending watermelon juice everywhere.
While Serafina and Chico fight in the next room, Orfeu and Eurydice enjoy more time together, mostly talking, until he announces he's going outside to sleep. The ruckus in the next room continues, concluding with Serafina and Chico going to bed. Orfeu whistles outside in a hammock, until Eurydice beckons him to come inside with her through the bamboo wall of the house.
The next morning, Benedito knocks on the outside wall of Zeca's house to wake him up, saying that it's time. Zeca grabs Orfeu's guitar and sneaks out of the house to join Benedito. The two boys go to Serafina's house, where Orfeu gazes at a sleeping Eurydice. Orfeu sees one of the boys put the guitar into the room through a door. The two boys go to look at the sun, when they hear Orfeu singing a song to Eurydice, whom he awakens pleasantly. A moment later, the sun rises on the horizon.
Later that day, Mira, in costume, greets Serafina, who tells her that she's tending to Chico. Serafina goes to her house and finds Orfeu and Eurydice together, undressed behind a wall. Serafina tells Eurydice to get her costume on, saying that Mira is on her way to the house. Orfeu declares that he's in no hurry. The two women go inside the house, and Serafina puts on her costume, which includes a veil over her face. Serafina says that Carnival is fun, but she'd rather be with Chico since he's leaving tomorrow, while Eurydice says she'd rather be dancing with Orfeu. Outside, Mira calls to Orfeu to open the door to his room. Serafina asks Eurydice if she'd want to dance in her place, putting the veil over Eurydice's head.
In his room, Orfeu lets Mira in; he is utterly disinterested in her and this annoys her. Mira notices a scarf that he wears and asks him about it. He explains that it's covered with signs of the zodiac. Mira asks Orfeu if the girl next door, referring to Eurydice, took him to Heaven last night. Orfeu continues ignoring her, and Mira tears up the scarf. The two start arguing, and Mira threatens to kill Eurydice if she sees her with Orfeu again. Benedito and Zeca enter the room, saying that they came to help Orfeu carry part of his costume, which looks like the sun, and Mira leaves them alone. In the next room, Eurydice asks Serafina who was shouting in Orfeu's room, then asks if it was Mira. Eurydice says that Orfeu promised he'd talk to Mira about what has happened.
Serafina tells Eurydice to pull the veil that she wears down, as Mira calls to her from outside. Serafina wakes up Chico, explains to him that Eurydice is her now, and tells him to kiss Eurydice just outside of her front door. Chico does as he's told. Outside, Mira walks away with a bunch of costumed people to Carnival, along with Orfeu. Orfeu tells Benedito to ask Serafina (whom he mistakes Eurydice for) if Eurydice is coming; Benedito goes to Eurydice, who raises her veil and says her identity is a secret only Orfeu can know. Benedito goes to tell Orfeu the secret as Orfeu joins the revelers, trailed by Eurydice.
On the streets of Rio, revelers abound, dancing rhythmic steps in elaborate costumes and pounding out music with instruments. Mira dances in one of the throngs. Another girl tells her to look at Serafina, so she turns toward the veiled Eurydice -- who dances with Orfeu. Mira gives them an intensely jealous look. Orfeu and Eurydice tell each other, "I love you." Mira heads to them, but is swept into a wave of dancers. Also, in the crowd, Death hovers, looking around for Eurydice. Mira steps over to Orfeu, asking him if he loves her, and he rebuffs her, then dances with Eurydice some more. Serafina and Chico, not wearing costumes, see the two lovers together; Benedito and Zeca notice Death watching from atop a platform.
Eurydice loses her amulet and it's grabbed by Benedito. Mira asks Orfeu why he chose Serafina to dance with him, and he rejects her again, going to the jury stand. She looks around angrily; Serafina, noticing this, tries to hide her face behind a material that Chico wears on his head. Then, Mira heads over to Eurydice, pulls up her veil, and sees her true identity. Mira grabs Eurydice and pushes her to the ground. Serafina yells to Chico that they have to help her cousin, but a security guard pushes them backwards.
Eurydice escapes Mira as the festivities continue around them. Orfeu hands a flag off to someone on a platform, saying that it belongs to everyone. Mira, pursuing Eurydice, yells that she'll kill her, and pulls a handhold with spiked ends out of a platform, chasing her through the crowd with it.
The fleeing Eurydice falls into Death's arms, then looks up, seeing who he is. She runs away, then Mira gets caught by Death, who forces her to drop the spiked handhold before she spits in his face. The costumed man shoves Mira to the ground.
A terrified Eurydice is stopped by Hermes, the man from the trolley station. Hermes tells her to go to his house, saying that he'll tell Orfeu what's going on. She does as Hermes says. A moment later, Death follows after her.
Eurydice makes her way to the trolley station; Death is revealed to still be stalking her. She sees him and runs farther into the yard, evading him for awhile until she climbs some stairs to a platform. Death climbs a rope after Eurydice, confronting her. Eurydice takes a leap, grabbing hold of an electrical wire for support. Orfeu runs into the yard, calling for Eurydice. He goes to an electrical board and turns on a switch, sending electricity through the wire and electrocuting Eurydice. She falls to the ground, dead.
Orfeu runs to where Eurydice's body is, then Death leaps in front of him, saying, "She's mine now." Death hurls Orfeu to the ground, where he's knocked unconscious.
Moments later, an ambulance drives past the partying crowd, with Death in his costume riding on its side. Later, Hermes and Benedito stand beside the still-out cold Orfeu as a man pats his face with a towel. Orfeu wakes up, and immediately runs to where Eurydice was. Hermes tells him that she is dead, and the man says they took her to the morgue.
Orfeu gets to the hospital, asking at a counter for some information. The man behind the counter ignores him, so Orfeu does some looking around. He sees a blue veil that resembles the one Eurydice wore earlier jutting from an elevator door. Orfeu runs up several flights of stairs, still hoping to see her alive. Orfeu doesn't find Eurydice and exits the hospital, stepping away with Benedito by his side. Benedito tells Orfeu not to be sad.
In front of a police building, numerous police arrest costumed people, putting them into police cars. Orfeu shows up and is recognized by a policeman who asks him to sing and dance, but Orfeu is far too depressed to oblige him. The policeman directs Orfeu to the missing persons door of the building.
Orfeu exits an elevator on the building's twelfth floor, which is quiet and empty, and asks if anyone is there. A janitor asks Orfeu what he's looking for. The janitor tells him there are no people in the missing persons office, only stacks of paper. The janitor asks Orfeu if he's in pain, and Orfeu answers that he lost Eurydice and it hurts him. The janitor tells him to call out to her, to which Orfeu responds he's been doing that. The janitor takes Orfeu down a long, spiral staircase in the building.
At the ground floor, the two men exit the building, coming to a gate guarded by a dog named Cerberus. Benedito follows them to the fence, but is intimidated by Cerberus, and runs away. The janitor shows Orfeu into a building where an Umbanda ritual takes place, with many black people. The janitor tells Orfeu to sing and call out to Eurydice, so Orfeu does just that. A voice speaks out, and Orfeu recognizes it as Eurydice's. She tells him he must not look back, or he'll never see her again.
Eurydice's voice says that she's getting closer, asking Orfeu if he loves her enough to hear her voice but not see her. He replies that he wants to see her and his arms are empty. Orfeu says she's not there and is tricking him. We see that Eurydice's voice is coming from an old woman taking part in the ritual. Orfeu repeats that he wants to see Eurydice. The voice from the old woman replies that Orfeu is killing her. Orfeu turns to the old woman. She says, "Farewell, Orfeu. You'll never see me again." Orfeu grabs the woman, angrily shaking her and feeling that she lied to him. Orfeu runs out of the building against the janitor's protests.
Not far from the building, Orfeu lies face down on the ground, where he's found by Benedito and Hermes. Orfeu slowly gets up and says, "I have nothing left to live for. I'm poorer than the poorest of black men." Hermes hands Orfeu a piece of paper, and Orfeu thanks him. Hermes tells Orfeu to save his thanks for Eurydice.
Later, Orfeu faces a man at a morgue who asks him if he'll take Eurydice's body. Without being told, the man understands that Orfeu will, and leads him to a room full of corpses. Orfeu lifts a sheet off of a body, seeing that it's Eurydice. Orfeu picks the body up, and carries it away. By voice over, Orfeu starts thanking Eurydice for this moment. Orfeu carries Eurydice's body to a faraway cliff, telling her to sing, and then by voice over, he sings.
Orfeu stops thinking and moving as he sees from not too far a group of people shouting and dancing around a fire. One of the people, Mira, runs toward Orfeu, saying that she'll kill him. Orfeu slowly backs away, and then Mira, trailed by Serafina, hurls a stone at him, hitting him in the head. Orfeu falls backwards off of the edge, and his and Eurydice's bodies roll down the cliff, before stopping in a huge plant's growth, both of them dead.
Benedito runs near another cliff, carrying Orfeu's guitar and yelling to Zeca to hurry up. Benedito tells Zeca to play the guitar and make the sun rise, urging him to make something up. Zeca takes the guitar, and plays a lively melody. A small girl joins the two boys, saying that Zeca made the sun rise. The girl tells Zeca that he is Orfeu now, telling him to play a song for her, so he does. The girl dances around, then Benedito and Zeca join her in fast dancing, while Zeca goes on playing the guitar.

