The theme is the founding of the state of Israel. The action begins on a ship filled with Jewish immigrants bound for Israel who are being off loaded on Cyprus. An Intelligence officer succeeds in getting them back on board their ship only to have the harbor blocked by the British with whom they must negotiate. The second part of the film is about the situation in Israel as independence is declared and most of their neighbors attack them.
Following World War II, the life of the Jewish nation is uncertain. The United Nations is contemplating taking a vote on creating a Jewish homeland in Palestine. Until then, many Jews are exiled from much of Europe - especially Germany - and as they have no where to go, they are sent to detention camps among other places Cypress. Ari Ben Canaan, a Palestinian Jew, wants to smuggle as many Jews as possible into Palestine. In his mind, the easiest way to influence the United Nations vote is by sheer numbers residing in Palestine. Ari commandeers a ship with 600 Jews, and after some obstacles, manages to make it to Palestine. Ari grew up in a mixed Arab/Jewish community in Palestine. His best childhood friend, Taha, is Arab and is now leader of the Arab section of the community. Regardless of the United Nations vote, the road to Ari's dream of a peaceful Jewish homeland in Palestine will be a difficult one because despite his own model community, extremist factions, both on the Jewish side and the anti-Zionist side, will never see living together in peace and advocate violence to achieve their own ends. Within this fray is widowed American nurse, Kitty Fremont. Kitty is initially naive about the conflict and hostile toward Ari's means of achieving his goals. However, she ultimately falls in love with him and with his dream despite their religious and cultural differences.
Following WW2, Israel is struggling to become an independent state and to secure its borders with its Arab neighbors.


An young Israeli activist fights to set up a homeland for the Jewish people.
An Israeli activist Ari (Paul Newman) attempts to get as many ex-European Israelis out of Cyprus containment camps, where they have been taken by the British after WWII. Palestine doesnt want them and neither does anybody else. But Ari decides to get as many as possible to Palestine in hopes of forcing the United Nations hand in setting up an Israeli Free State there.
After getting 600 onto a ship and being blockaded by the British in Cyprus, he manages to get the ship to Palestine where he comes into conflict with the Arab leader, once a childhood friend.
Romantic interlude is supplied by Kitty Fremont (Eva Marie Saint) a recently widowed American nurse
The film title is taken from the 1958 book by Leon Uris, who took the eponymous title from the name of the ship, Exodus.


