In the 21st century, Jeff Tracy, a former astronaut, amasses a colossal fortune and decides that he must use it to benefit others. His answer to this desire is to create International Rescue, a unique private emergency response service equipped with customed designed vehicles and equipment that enable the organization to react to any crisis whether it be in sea, air, land, or space. Jeff's five sons volunteer to operate as the pilots and field agents, as well "Brains" (alias Hiram B. Hackenbaker) as the team engineer. In addition, Jeff's friend, Kyrano and his daughter Tin Tin agree to be the support staff. In addition to the field team, IR also maintains an intelligence network with Lady Penelope and her ex-con chauffer, Parker as the chief agents in this arm. The series depicts this team as they answer various calls for help around and beyond the world while they prevent enemies like the Hood from learning and exploiting their secrets
International Rescue is a secret organization in the latter 21st century, utilizing revolutionary high-technology machinery tailored to rescue people trapped in extraordinarily dangerous situations. Its founder is Jeff Tracy, a billionaire former astronaut whose investments in aviation and technology have seeded him with the necessary means to create his rescue organization, based on a mountainous island in the South Pacific. Widowed, Jeff leads his five sons - Scott, the eldest and field commander for rescues; John, second eldest who usually mans IR's early warning satellite; Virgil, a musician and artist who is the team's workhorse; Gordon, jocular and an expert aquanaut; Alan, the youngest and most impetuous. The Tracy family is aided by Jeff's manservant Kyrano and his daughter Tin-Tin, and IR has a grid of agents around the world, usually led by wealthy Briton Lady Penelope Creighton-Ward and her manservant Aloysios Parker, a Cockney ex-con who has gone straight, but whose skills and knowledge of criminal elements allow IR to infiltrate potentially dangerous situations. IR jealously guards its secret base, as its technology can be used to destroy life if it falls into the wrong hands - and determined to acquire their secrets and sell their technology to the highest bidder is a Malaysian criminal known only as The Hood, a master of disguise who is brother to Kyrano and who possesses mysterious and powerful hypnotic ability.
In the 21st century, the Tracy family operate a unique private mechanized emergency response service.
