An old Chinese gentleman rides into the town of Abalone, Arizona and changes it forever, as the citizens see themselves reflected in the mirror of Lao's mysterious circus of mythical beasts.
In the early 20th century, Dr. Lao brings his circus to the town of Abalone. The town is under threat due to a break in the water supply system and wealthy businessman Clint Stark advises everyone that he's prepared to buy them all out, lock, stock and barrel. What he doesn't tell anyone is that the railroad will run through the town in less than a year's time. The local newspaperman, Ed Cunningham and the librarian Angela Benedict both think Stark is up to no good. Dr. Lao spins his magic and the good townsfolk can have their fortune told; be introduced to Pan, the God Joy; or entertained by Merlin the magician and his tricks. Dr. Lao gets them to look at life differently and not to sell out to the highest bidder.
In the turn of the Twentieth Century, the Chinese Dr. Lao arrives in Abalone, Arizona, riding a donkey carrying a fishbowl with a small fish and goes to the local newspaper Diary Star. He asks the owner Ed Cunningham to publish one-page advertisement for two days for his traveling circus. Ed has unrequited love for the widow librarian Angela Benedict and opposes to the powerful rancher Clint Stark that wants to buy the lands of the inhabitants of Abalone. He uses the argument that the water supply pipe is decayed and needs to be replaced and it will be very expensive. However Stark has inside information that the railroad will pass by Abalone and will increase the value of the lands. There is a meeting in the town to decide whether the locals will sell their real estates to Stark or not but the decision is postponed after the arrival of Dr. Lao. During the night, the dwellers go to the circus to see The Abominable Snowman, Merlin the Magician, Apollonius of Tyana, Pan, The Giant Serpent and Medusa. Each attraction gives a lesson to each resident, changing their future and behavior for the better.
A mysterious circus comes to a western town bearing wonders and characters that entertain the inhabitants and teach valuable lessons.
