Marnie Edgar is a habitual liar and a thief who gets jobs as a secretary and after a few months robs the firms in question, usually of several thousand dollars. When she gets a job at Rutland's, she also catches the eye of the handsome owner, Mark Rutland. He prevents her from stealing and running off, as is her usual pattern, but also forces her to marry him. Their honeymoon is a disaster and she cannot stand to have a man touch her and on their return home, Mark has a private detective look into her past. When he has the details of what happened in her childhood to make her what she is, he arranges a confrontation with her mother realizing that reliving the terrible events that occurred in her childhood and bringing out those repressed memories is the only way to save her.
In her own words, the beautiful Marnie Edgar is a cheat, a liar and a thief. Her M.O.: using one of a number of aliases each with a distinct social security number and a different look (generally entailing a different hair color and style), she gets an accounting type job at an office which will allow her access to the office safe, steals the money in the safe, then disappears without a trace. Much of that money goes to her Baltimore port area residing mother, Bernice Edgar, who doesn't ask from where the money comes and who seems to have an uneasy relationship with her daughter. The latest scam on which Marnie embarks, using the alias Mary Taylor, a widow, is at Philadelphia based Rutland & Co. What Marnie is unaware of is that company president Mark Rutland, a recent widower, who saw Marnie when she came in for her interview, suggested that she be hired despite she not being the most qualified candidate, solely because he recognized her as the beautiful Marion Holland, the former clerk at Strutt & Co. - a client of Rutland - who was hired there solely for her good looks, and who reportedly stole $10,000 from its office safe. Marnie does not recognize Mark. Mark wants to find out her story. He begins to do so after she manages to steal money out of the Rutland office safe. Mark did some research on her and she, who is between a rock and a hard place concerning this most recent theft, eventually fills in the rest of the details concerning her criminal activities. However, Mark doesn't send her to prison, but rather has a proposition for her which she can't refuse. This agreement with Mark ends up being her own kind of prison, from which she tries to escape. While Mark tries to understand why Marnie is the way that she is, which includes seemingly morbid fears of thunderstorms, saturated instances of the color red, and being touched by men, Mark's sister-in-law, Lil Mainwaring, who seems to have aspirations to be the next Mrs. Mark Rutland, tries to find out what Marnie and Mark are hiding. If Lil is successful, Marnie's past could catch up with her and Mark and their arrangement.
Marnie Edgar is an ice-cold habitual thief. She uses her looks to gain the confidence of her employers, robs them, and changes her identity. Her only loves are her horse and her mother, although she has problems with the latter relationship. Marnie applies for a job at Mark Rutland's Philadelphia publishing company. Mark recognises her since he is a client of her last employer, but instead of turning her in, he decides to watch her.
The beautiful Marnie Edgar is a first-class bookkeeper and the apple of her employers' eyes. She happens also to be a compulsive thief who has taken her last employer, Sidney Strutt, to the cleaners before disappearing into thin air. But with Mark Rutland she attempts robbery once too often. He forces her to marry him, and out of love for her uncovers the mysteries of her past that contribute to her penchant for taking other people's money.
Mark marries Marnie although she is a habitual thief and has serious psychological problems, and tries to help her confront and resolve them.


Marnie Edgar (Hedren) is a troubled young woman who has an unnatural fear and mistrust of men, thunderstorms, and the color red. She is also a compulsive thief. She uses her charms on Sidney Strutt (Martin Gabel) to get a job without references. Then late one night, she steals the contents of the company safe and disappears.
Mark Rutland (Connery), a widower who owns a large printing company, is a good customer of Strutt's. He learns about the theft from the victim, and remembers the woman. So when Marnie applies for a job at his company, he is intrigued. He is robbed too, but unlike Strutt, Mark manages to track Marnie down. Instead of handing her over to the police, he blackmails her into marrying him.
On their honeymoon, he finds out about her frigidity. At first, he respects her wishes, but soon obsessed with controlling and dominating Marnie, he rapes her. The next morning, she tries to commit suicide, but Mark finds her in time.
He attempts to discover the reasons behind Marnie's behavior. In the end, Marnie and Mark learn that her mother, Bernice (Louise Latham), had been a prostitute. When Marnie was six years old, one of her mother's clients (a sailor played by Bruce Dern) had begun to kiss and handle Marnie. Bernice seeing his intentions and that he was trying to molest her daughter, begins attacking him. Seeing her mother struggling with the man, Marnie struck him with a fireplace poker, killing him. The bloodshed led to her fear of the color red. Once the origin of her fears is revealed, Marnie decides she wants to try to make her marriage work.

