When Charlie Brown complains about the overwhelming materialism that he sees amongst everyone during the Christmas season, Lucy suggests that he become director of the school Christmas paegent. Charlie Brown accepts, but it proves to be a frustrating struggle. When an attempt to restore the proper spirit with a forlorn little fir Christmas tree fails, he needs Linus' help to learn what the real meaning of Christmas is.
Christmastime is here, and Charlie Brown knows that he should be happy, but he isn't. He also knows that commercialism is the problem - even manifesting itself within his own family as seen by younger sister Sally's Christmas letter to Santa, and Snoopy entering a Christmas decorating contest with a cash prize - but he doesn't know what to do about it. When Lucy suggests that he direct the Christmas play, Charlie Brown hopes to find the true meaning of Christmas in the process. But that doesn't seem to be working. One of the last pieces for the play is to get a Christmas tree as the set centerpiece. Charlie Brown, with Linus is tow, takes on the task himself, with all of his cast wanting him to pick out a nice aluminum tree. Instead, Charlie Brown chooses a small, sickly looking real tree that he believes needs some tender loving care. Although it is the exact opposite of what his cast asked him to get, it may act as that symbol to bring the true meaning of Christmas back into everyone lives, with a little help from a speech by Linus.
Repelled by the commercialism he sees around him, Charlie Brown tries to find the true meaning of Christmas.


Charlie Brown is depressed because Christmas lacks meaning to him, He sees Lucy and Snoopy obsessed with presents and decorations, Schroeder obsessed with the Christmas pageant, and everyone else focusing on Christmas Cards and letters for Santa, and all this causes him to question the true meaning of Christmas. Charlie has become disgusted by how commercial the Holiday has become. When the gang agrees to give Charlie the task of picking out a Christmas Tree for the pageant, he picks out a lonely, scrawny little tree that, along with a touching speech from Linus, helps everyone to ultimately understand the true meaning of the Holiday.

