Young, attractive and vivacious, model Diana Scott is firmly decided to become rich and famous as well. To succeed, she does not hesitate to take bold steps. After a while, she literally strikes gold: she meets Robert Gold, a well-known TV journalist, who not only introduces her into new social and professional circles, but also abandons his family to live with her. Diana seems to have happily combined success and love. However, in those roaring sixties, others are ready to offer her even more money, fame, and, seemingly, fun than Robert can...
Twenty-something Italian Princess della Romita, better known to her British fans as Sussex born Diana Scott, is giving an interview to a reporter in which she describes her life. She is straightforward about the facts. She worked as a London based model, her most famous job being as the Honeyglow girl, and had a moderately successful stint as an actress in small roles both on film and in commercials. She married her first husband Tony Bridges when they were both quite young, but she left him when she fell into an unplanned relationship with television journalist Robert Gold, who was at the time married himself with a family. Although she and Robert never married, they lived together for some time. She and Robert split after she fell into an unplanned relationship with advertising executive Miles Brand, who was the one who discovered her as the Honeyglow girl. She met her current husband, the Prince Cesare della Romita while she was working and vacationing in Italy. But behind these facts, she is less than forthright about her emotions in each of these moves, and the motivations for them. If she was forthright, she would expose herself as the vain and self-centered person she is, who was most understood by Miles, but who Robert began to understand, albeit too late.
Diana Scott is a young London model who decides to climb the social ladder quickly by jumping, rather fecklessly, in and out of assorted beds. She is a reckless seeker of self caught up in a frenzied sexcursion of jet-set Europe, in search of new experiences and finding emptiness at every level. Sardonically comic observations on various forms of self-indulgence among the wealthy emphasize the false values which have destroyed Diana's chance of genuine self-fulfillment.
A beautiful but amoral model sleeps her way to the top of the London fashion scene at the height of the Swinging Sixties.
