A young man visits his fiancée's estate to discover that her wheelchair-bound scientist father has discovered a meteorite that emits mutating radiation rays that have turned the plants in his greenhouse to giants. When his own wife falls victim to this mysterious power, the old man takes it upon himself to destroy the glowing object with disastrous results.
Stephen Reinhart travels to a remote English village to visit his girlfriend Susan Whitley. From the moment he arrives in the village, it's clear that no one will speak of the Whitleys or even give him directions to the Whitley estate. Susan is happy to see him when he finally makes it there but her father Nahum tells him he must leave immediately. Susan and her bedridden mother Letitia are happy to have him stay but it's clear that Nahum Whitley has a secret, one that Susan isn't aware of, but is kept in the cellar of the house.
The American Stephen Reinhart arrives by train in Arkham, a small town in the countryside of England. He tries to travel to the real estate of a man called Witley by taxi or bicycle, but the locals are frightened by the name and refuse to help him. Stephen has to walk to the property and he is badly received by Nahum Witley, who is on the wheelchair. Stephen informs that he had been invited by his fiancée, Susan Witley, who welcomes him when she sees Stephen. The young man is summoned by Susan's mother, Letitia Witley, who is very ill, to have a private conversation with her, and she asks Stephen to leave the real estate as soon as possible with Susan. Further he learns that the maid Helga has disappeared and the butler Merwyn is also very ill. Stephen notes that there are weird things happening in the house, with a woman in black wandering in the garden and screams during the night. He snoops around and finds the Nahum is using the radiation of a meteorite in the greenhouse to turn the wasteland into a place of beauty with giant plants. However the side effect of the radiation has killed Merwyn and affected the health and turned Helga and Letitia into monsters. Now Nahum wants to destroy the stone with tragic consequences.
