Accidentally blinded by her prostitute mother Rose-Ann at the age of five, Selina D'Arcey spends the next 13 years confined in the tiny Los Angeles apartment that they share with "Ole Pa", Selina's grandfather. One afternoon at the local park, Selina meets Gordon Ralfe, a thoughtful young office worker whose kind-hearted treatment of her results in her falling in love with him, unaware that he is black. They continue to meet in the park every afternoon and he teaches her how to get along in the city. But when the cruel, domineering Rose-Ann learns of their relationship, she forbids her to have anything more to do with him because he is black. Selina continues to meet Gordon despite Rose-Ann's fury, who is determined to end the relationship for good.
The story of a chance encounter beneath a tree in a city park and the friendship that ensues. Accidentally blinded by her mother when she was five, Selina knows very little of the world beyond the dirty walls of her grandfather's tenement apartment. Enduring a life of servitude to her prostitute mother, Roseanne, and "Ole' Pa," her drunkard grandfather, Selina spends her days cleaning the apartment, washing and ironing her mother's and grandfather's clothes, and preparing their supper. Her only companionship is the radio until Mr. Faber (for whom she strings beads to bring in money) one day offers to take her to the park. "The sky's blue, ain't it?" she asks. "I remember blue." When she meets Gordon who becomes her only friend, the park is quickly transformed into the center of her universe. Knowing Gordon only as the kind and caring person that he is, Selina's feelings for him deepen. Only after Roseanne catches sight of Gordon escorting her daughter back to the apartment, one day, does Selina discover that Gordon is black. Her blindness has given Selina perspective which is sorely lacking in Roseanne and Ole Pa. To get her away from Gordon, Roseanne makes plans to move into an apartment with her friend Sadie. They will start their own "business" where Selina might provide yet another source of income. How will Selina escape the future that Roseanne has planned for her? Will she ever see Gordon again?
A blind, uneducated white girl is befriended by a black man, who becomes determined to help her escape her impoverished and abusive home life.
