Jennifer Nelson and Bruce Templeton meet when Bruce reels in her mermaid suit leaving Jennifer bottomless in the waters of Catalina Island. She later discovers that Bruce is the big boss at her work (a research lab). Bruce hires Jennifer to be his biographer - only to try and win her affections. However, there's a problem. Bruce's friend General Wallace Bleeker believes that Jennifer is a Russian spy, and he has her placed under surveillance. Then, when Jennifer catches on...Watch Out!
While not acting as a swimming mermaid for her father's Catalina based glass bottom tour boat business, widowed Jenny Nelson works in the public relations department of NASA, primarily acting as a tour guide. Feeling like no man can fill the void left by her husband's death, she spends her personal time taking care of her menagerie of pets or taking night classes. Regardless, Bruce Templeton, a research scientist on contract to NASA, does enter her life in a romantic sense despite their auspicious and antagonistic initial meeting. Bruce does whatever he can to infiltrate Jenny's life, even making up a non-existent and so-called top secret work project so that they can spend their working days together. Jenny believes that she is falling in love with him. Bruce's true work for NASA is on a gravity project called GISMO, the secret equation on which enemy regimes would love to get their hands. Based on circumstances, the CIA and NASA officials begin to suspect that Jenny is a spy working for the Soviets, something which Bruce does not truly believe, although he does have nagging suspicions as to Jenny's Soviet allegiances. The true spies working for the Soviets also begin to believe that Jenny is a spy working for another enemy regime. Jenny and Bruce's relationship is threatened by these suspicions, and would be further threatened if Jenny was ever to learn of the deceptions Bruce used to enter her life.
After a series of misunderstandings, the head of an aerospace research laboratory begins to suspect his new girlfriend is a Russian spy.
