After an in-flight anti-gravity striptease (masked by the film's opening titles), Barbarella, a 41st century astronaut, lands on the planet Lythion and sets out to find the evil Durand Durand in the city of Sogo, where a new sin is invented every hour. There, she encounters such objects as the Exessive Machine, a genuine sex organ on which an accomplished artist of the keyboard, in this case, Durand Durand himself, can drive a victim to death by pleasure, a lesbian queen who, in her dream chamber, can make her fantasies take form, and a group of ladies smoking a giant hookah which, via a poor victim struggling in its glass globe, dispenses Essance of Man. You can't help but be impressed by the special effects crew and the various ways that were found to tear off what few clothes our heroine seemed to possess. Based on the popular French comic strip.
The year is 40,000. Barbarella is a futuristic astronaut from Earth who is called on to retrieve Durand Durand, a renowned scientist, from the evil City of Night, Sogo. On her perilous (and quite sexy), journey she teams with blind angel Pygar, and battles the Black Queen along with various sexual torture devices.
In a distant future, there is no more war or weapons on Earth, just love. The astronavigator Barbarella is assigned by the President of Earth to seek out the scientist Durand Durand, who has invented the powerful weapon Positronic Ray, and vanished in the Tau Ceti area. Barbarella crashes in an icy planet and is saved by the catchman Mark Hand from an attack of dangerous dolls with razor teeth. Barbarella rewards him with sex and Mark tells that Durand Durand should be in the city of Sogo. Now Barbarella begins a dangerous journey to save Earth from the dangerous Durand Durand.
The year is 40,000. Peacefully floating around in zero-gravity, Barbarella is suddenly interrupted by a call from the President of Earth. A young scientist, Durand Durand, is threatening the ancient universal peace and Barbarella is the chosen one to find him and save the world. During her mission, Barbarella never finds herself in a situation where this isn't possible to lose at least part of her already minimal dressing.
In the far future, a highly sexual woman is assigned with finding and stopping the evil Durand-Durand. Along the way, she encounters various unusual people.
