Coogan, an Arizona cop, is sent to New York to collect a prisoner. Everyone in New York assumes Coogan is from Texas, much to his annoyance. To add to Coogan's problems the prisoner isn't ready, so he decides to cut a few corners. In the process the prisoner escapes, and Coogan is ordered home. Too proud to return home empty handed, Coogan sets out into the big city to recapture his prisoner.
Coogan's an Arizona deputy sheriff, who doesn't get along with his boss and doesn't exactly do things by the book, and also a little arrogant. Fed up with his rugged individualness, his boss sends him to New York to get a man who's waiting to extradited. Upon arriving everybody thinks he's just another bumpkin. When the New York Police Lieutenant tells him that his prisoner is still not ready to be transported, Coogan tries to be patient. But when he decides that he can't wait anymore, he tricks one of the attendants into releasing the prisoner and at the airport someone springs him. Coogan's boss is pleased that he has screwed up so bad, and orders him to return but Coogan feeling responsible or his ego has been bruised stays and tries to find despite being warn by the Lieutenant that he has no authority here.
An Arizona deputy goes to New York City to escort a fugitive back into custody.



There's a disruption in the activities of Sheriff Walt Coogan (Clint Eastwood) as a crack tracker and ladies' man when he is ordered as punishment to travel from his home state Arizona to extradite bail jumper Ringerman (Don Stroud) from jail in New York City. When Coogan arrives he is met by bureaucratic red tape because Ringerman is in the hospital recovering from a bad dose of LSD. Furthermore Coogan can get no cooperation from overworked Police Detective and department supervisor Lt. McElroy (Lee J. Cobb) who tells Coogan to wait for the autocratic machinery to function. Coogan takes matters into his own hands and breaks Ringerman out of the prison hospital but is waylaid by the criminal's associates, one of which is the lovely and elusive Linny Raven (Tisha Sterling) who knocks out the Arizona Sheriff and steals his gun. Lt. McElroy orders Coogan to leave town but the Sheriff has met lovely parole officer Julie (Susan Clark), a naïve case worker who is taken by Coogan's charms. Coogan discovers that Linny is one of Julie's patients and manages to track down the young girl which leads him to Ringerman.


