Texas greenhorn Joe Buck arrives in New York for the first time. Preening himself as a real 'hustler', he finds that he is the one getting 'hustled' until he teams up with a down-and-out but resilient outcast named Ratso Rizzo. The initial 'country cousin meets city cousin' relationship deepens. In their efforts to bilk a hostile world rebuffing them at every turn, this unlikely pair progress from partners in shady business to comrades. Each has found his first real friend.
The naive Joe Buck quits his job of dishwasher and travels from a small town in Texas to New York expecting to make money as a hustler. On the arrival, he is lured by the crippled crook Enrico Salvatore "Ratso" Rizzo that takes some money from him. Soon Joe is broken and homeless without any client or money, and he meets Ratso again on the streets that invites him to move to his apartment in a derelict building. Ratso has a strange cough and his health gets worse. He dreams on moving to Florida where he believes he will be healthy again. Joe and Ratso develop a friendship and Joe decides to go with his friend to Florida as soon as he gets the necessary money.
Attired in urban cowboy garb, Joe Buck is a naive Texas hayseed having just arrived in New York City to make it big as a gigolo solely to his preferred clientèle of rich, attractive women. His belief in his charms on the female persuasion has been reinforced his entire life, he believes, by all the females with who he has had encounters, past and present, family, friends and lovers. However, life in New York City is not all he wants it to be, being out-hustled by most people he meets, they who he does not have the fortitude to hustle right back to get what he was originally due. Largely out of having nowhere else to turn, he eventually befriends one of those hustlers, a sickly man with a gimp leg named Enrico Rizzo, who is nicknamed Ratso by those who don't much like him, that nickname which he doesn't much like. Joe ends up squatting with Ratso in a room he has found in a condemned and thus otherwise empty building. As they lean on each other for support, they work together for their mutual benefit and survival. But as Ratso's health deteriorates over the winter, Joe changes his focus to achieving Ratso's dream of moving to Miami.
A naive hustler goes to New York to seek personal fortune but in the process finds himself a new friend.


Joe Buck (Jon Voight) leaves his job as a dishwasher in a small town in Texas, and gets on the bus heading for New York City. There he plans to use his considerable (from what the local girls have told him) manly talents to make a splash with (and a good living from) wealthy, high-society women. He is dogged by flashbacks to experiences from his childhood -- suggestions of violence, sexual abuse and abandonment -- yet somehow he has retained an upbeat spirit of hopefulness, joy, and enthusiasm for life. His kindness and generous spirit is heart-rending, and of course, his naïveté makes him an easy target in the big city. He does not learn from being ripped off initially, but his trusting spirit remains intact when he meets the sickly and streetwise Ratso (Dustin Hoffman). "My name is Enrique Salvatore Rizzo ... Call me Rico ... Im not Ratso ... In my own home, call me Rico." After initially conning Joe out of twenty dollars, they eventually become friends, companions, and soul mates. With Ratso taking over the management side of the hustling operation, they set about finding the wealthy women with whom Joe hopes to make his fortune, not just for himself, but for Ratso, too. As Ratso's health becomes more of an issue, Joe faces dark choices, leading him to actions he never anticipated.

