While the some of the residents of Midsomer Parva have a particular interest in the appearance of crop circles, the police have a definite interest when the bodies of naked men start appearing in them. Local UFOlogist Lloyd Kirby preaches that extra-terrestrials are at work, but Barnaby looks to more earthly explanations. The first victim, Ronnie Stokes, was a criminal with several serious convictions for assault while the second, Eddie Field, was a local burglar who had only just been released from prison and who may have committed another burglary the night of his death. Both men were electrocuted and were killed elsewhere, with their bodies moved to the crop circles. When a third man is electrocuted, Barnaby must learn of a complex series of events and inter-relationships, some from 40 years previously when two men loved the same woman, to solve the crimes.
The discovery of a man's naked body in the center of a crop circle brings UFO fans flocking to Midsomer Parva and the field owned by Sir Harry Chatwyn. With a hole at the base of the spine, a chunk of hair missing, burn marks and a terrified expression, the corpse bears all the hallmarks of alien abduction. DCI Tom Barnaby and Sergeant Gavin Troy think stories of flying saucers are a smoke-screen for murder, but extra-terrestrial expert Lloyd Kirby is convinced otherwise. Lloyd is brought in for questioning but former diplomat Sir Christian Aubrey vouches for his honesty. A post-mortem confirms electrocution, but the victim is a London criminal with no interest in the countryside or aliens. Then the body of a local burglar is found in a crop circle with an identical set of injuries. There are also plenty of earthly goings-on in Midsomer Parva. Sir Harry shares a mistress, doctor's receptionist Sally Boulter, with his daughter Lucy's husband. As a third victim is discovered, Barnaby must discover who is responsible - or if extra-terrestrial powers are truly at work.
The body of a criminal is found in a crop circle, and the locals blame Extra Terrestrail activity for the death. But Barnaby is not convinced.


The story uses the special technique, where at the beginning you see something from the past, that is only woven into the actual story much later on. But the duel is relevant. In the DVD-edition John Nettles (Barnaby) refers to an episode where one of the victims is not explained in the plot. He does not mention which, but obviously it is this one. For you to figure out which victim that is. Otherwise, the beautiful build-up and the style of play of the actors is outstanding. For UK detective buffs it is nice to see how villains from other series can turn into sympathetic, yet weird UFOlogists, or fairly stable daughters of QC's can become irrational crybabies.

