Fielding Mellish (a consumer products tester) becomes infatuated with Nancy (a political activist). He attends demonstrations and tries in other ways to convince her that he is worthy of her love, but Nancy wants someone with greater leadership potential. Fielding runs off to San Marcos where he joins the rebels and eventually becomes President of the country. While on a trip to the states, he meets Nancy again and she falls for him now that he is a political leader.
In the Republic of San Marcos, in Latin America, the president is murdered in a Coup d'État promoted by General Emilio M. Vargas. In New York, the products tester Fielding Mellish meets the political activist Nancy and they have a love affair. Fielding has an unrequited love with Nancy, who believes that he is immature and without leadership. Fielding decides to travel to San Marcos and General Vargas plots a scheme the assassination of Fielding to be supported by the USA against the rebels led by Esposito. However the rebels save Fielding and train him in guerrilla warfare. General Vargas flees to the United States. Esposito deranges with the power and Fielding becomes the President of San Marcos. He wears a long beard and travels to USA seeking financial support to the country and he meets Nancy again, who falls in love with him.
When a bumbling New Yorker is dumped by his activist girlfriend, he travels to a tiny Latin American nation and becomes involved in its latest rebellion.


In the opening scene, TV reporter 
Howard Cosell
, playing himself, covers the assassination of the president of San Marcos, an imaginary Central American banana republic.
The scene shifts to the US, where lonesome loser Fielding Mellish (
Woody Allen
) works as a product tester. Fielding has the hots for Nancy (
Louise Lasser
), the girl collecting petition signatures door to door for the liberation of San Marcos, so he pretends to be interested in her cause. A relationship develops between them, but when she dumps him, he is devastated. He reckons he'll have to get very involved in the situation in San Marcos to win her back.
In San Marcos, Fielding's ineptitude leads to his capture by the rebels who are fighting to overthrow the military dictator, General Vargas (
Carlos Montalbán
). Fielding is encouraged, despite his modest education, to become the rebels' figurehead. His mission is to solicit funding for the rebel cause, but he fails miserably.
As a key figure in a revolution that America does not support, Mellish is no longer welcome in his own country. Wearing a disguise, he returns to America, where his ex-girlfriend has renewed interest in him, not knowing he is really Fielding Mellish. Things seem to be developing well for them until the CIA discovers that he is a representative of the San Marcos rebels.
After a humiliating and politically charged trial, Mellish is fortunate to avoid imprisonment. He marries Nancy, who, remarkably, now admires him for making great sacrifices for a cause she believes in so deeply. In a final scene that echoes the movie's beginning, Cosell narrates the consummation of Nancy and Fielding's marriage and, in classic sportscaster style, interviews them in bed afterward. (They remain demurely covered throughout.)

