Kusum is a quiet and simple school girl who is crazy about Bollywood movies. She thinks that in movies real life related things are shown. She is crazy about a movie-star and actor "Dharmendra" and he is her real-life hero, she will give anything to be near him. Now, she is growing but still unable to differentiate between reality of life and movie. Such is her obsession with movies and Dharmendra that she is not willing to even consider marriage with anyone other than Dharmendra himself. A young boy is deeply in love with her but the girl does not even care about him because she love that star (Dharmendra) too much. In the movie, girl's mama (Uncle) takes the help of the movie star and shows her the reality of movie making. In the end, the girl gets the points and decides to get married to the boy.
This story is about a school girl (Jaya) who is crazy about movies. She thinks that in movies real life related things are shown. She is crazy about a movie-star (Dharmandra) and he is her real-life hero. Now, she is growing but still unable to differentiate between reality of life and movie. A young boy is deeply in love with her but the girl is crazy about this movie star. In the movie, girl's mama (Uncle) takes the help of the movie star and shows her the reality of movie making. In the end, the girl gets the points and decides to get married to the boy.
Kusum is a precocious schoolgirl, who is obsessed with Bollywood movies. Her favorite actor is "He-man" Dharmendra, and she will give anything to be near him, as he is her ideal. Such is her obsession with movies and Dharmendra that she is not willing to even consider marriage with anyone other than Dharmendra himself. Her uncle (Utpal Dutt) comes to know of this and decides to take her to see Dharmendra and tinsel town. Kusum is overjoyed, and is thrilled to meet Dharmendra in person. Her uncle would like her to marry a young man named Navinchand, but how can any ordinary male even contemplate of competing with a superstar like "garam-dharam" Dharmendra?
Kusum 'Guddi' is a movieholic whose favorite actor is Dharmendra. Although she is a young adult, she fails to distinguish movies from reality. She believes that Dharmandra is the dashing hero-type person in real life. When visiting her uncle in Bombay, her uncle sets up a visit to the studios to meet Dharmendra and see how a film is made. There she learns that much of the action is fake, and that for more risky scenes, there are stunt doubles. In addition she learns that Pran is a nice person, even though he is typecast as a villain in most movies.
A teenage girl will not accept her family's attempt to arrange a marriage for her, as her heart is currently too full of love for the movies and heartthrob actor "Dharmendra."
