Self-destructive and needy but wealthy teenager Harold is obsessed with death and spends his leisure time attending funerals, watching the demolition of buildings, visiting junkyards, simulating suicides trying to get the attention of his indifferent, snobbish and egocentric mother, and having sessions with his psychologist. When Harold meets the anarchic seventy-nine-year-old Maude at a funeral, they become friends and the old lady discloses other perspectives of the cycle of life for him. Meanwhile, his mother enlists him in a dating service and tries to force him to join the army. On the day of Maude's eightieth birthday, Harold proposes to her but he finds the truth about life at the end of hers.
Harold is a depressed, death-obsessed 20-year-old man/child who spends his free time attending funerals and pretending to commit suicide in front of his mother. At a funeral, Harold befriends Maude, a 79-year-old woman who has a zest for life. She and Harold spend much time together during which she exposes him to the wonders and possibilities of life. After rejecting his mother's three attempts to set him up with a potential wife, and committing fake suicide in front of all of them, Harold announces that he is to be married to Maude. However, Maude has a surprise for Harold that is to change his life forever.
Young, rich, and obsessed with death, Harold finds himself changed forever when he meets lively septuagenarian Maude at a funeral.


Harold Chasen is a nineteen-year-old boy obsessed with death so much so that he torments his mother (Vivian Pickles) with elaborately staged fake suicides.
Harold meets Maude, 79 years old, at a funeral. The pair form a bond, with Maude slowly opening Harold to the sensual pleasures of music and art and the general anarchy of living for the moment and doing whatever one pleases. Their relationship turns sexual, despite Harold's mother's best attempts to get her son to settle down with someone she considers appropriate.
Upon Maude's 80th birthday at a surprise party Harold has thrown for her Maude reveals that she has taken poison and will be dead by midnight. She restates her firm belief that 80 is the proper age to die.
Harold has Maude rushed to the hospital, but it is too late. In the final sequence, it appears that a grief-stricken Harold drives his car (a Jaguar he had earlier transformed to look like a hearse) off a cliff. The final shot, however, reveals Harold with the banjo Maude gave him strapped around his shoulder upon the cliff. He walks away, picking out on his banjo the notes to Cat Stevens' "If You Want to Sing Out, Sing Out".

