Six months after the disappearance of Tuscarora, PA businessman Tom Gruneman, his boss, Peter Cable, and his wife, Holly Gruneman, hire Tom's best friend, private detective John Klute to find out what happened to Tom, as the police have been unable to do so, and despite John having no expertise in missing persons cases. The only lead is a typewritten obscene letter Tom purportedly sent to Manhattan actress/model/call girl Bree Daniel, who admits to having received such letters from someone, and since having received several obscene telephone calls as well. The suggestion/belief is that Tom was one of Bree's past johns, although she has no recollection of him when shown his photograph. Bree tricking is more a compulsion than a financial need. In their initial encounters, John and Bree do whatever they can to exert their psychological dominance over the other, especially as Bree initially refused to even speak to him. Despite their less than friendly start, they embark on a personal relationship based on emotional need, but it is a relationship Bree tries to sabotage because of those same issues which causes her to turn tricks. As they follow the leads through Bree's call girl world, they know they're getting close to finding the truth when someone starts to use psychological torture on Bree. They believe the key to Tom's disappearance is a john who once tried to kill her a few years earlier, but who as a person she doesn't remember. The questions become whether John and Bree can discover his identity and stop him before he tries to kill Bree again, and if they can whether there is an immediate future for them together.
John Klute's friend has totally disappeared. The only clue a connection with a call girl, Bree Daniels. Klute taps her phone in order to gain evidence against her to blackmail her into helping him find his friend. While Klute searches, someone is stalking Bree.
When his old friend, the laboratory engineer Tom Gruneman, vanishes, detective John Klute is hired by Tom's colleague Peter Cable to search for him. The unique lead is an obscene letter written by Tom to a call-girl in New York called Bree Daniels, and Klute moves to the Apple city to investigate the disappearance of Tom. Klute blackmails Bree to help him to find other prostitutes that might have been with Tom using some tapes of her phone calls that he had secretly recorded. They realize that some is stalking Bree, while Klute falls in love for Dress, and she has some sort of feeling that she can not understand for him.
After a businessman disappears the FBI draw a blank except for some unpleasant letters he wrote to a call-girl. His small-town friend John Klute travels to the big city to seek her out. At first their relationship is wary, and she sees him as just another guy to manipulate. But someone may already be stalking her, and as Klute's activities add to the danger a bond of sorts starts to grow.
A small-town detective searching for a missing man has only one lead: a connection with a New York prostitute.


Bree Daniels (Jane Fonda) is a prostitute in New York City who aspires to be a model/actress. Along with Jane McKenna and Arlyn Page, she works for pimp Frank Ligourin (Roy Scheider). All three women have scary experiences with a violent customer.
Tom Gruneman and his wife host a social gathering at their house in Tuscarora, Pennsylvania. Their guests include Tom's boss Peter Cable (Charles Cioffi) and Tom's best friend/policeman John Klute (Donald Sutherland).
Soon after, Tom Gruneman disappears without a trace and the FBI begins an investigation. The FBI agents find a typed letter from Gruneman to Daniels at Gruneman's office. Daniels is contacted and she confirms that she had received several letters from Gruneman, but does not remember him when shown a photograph. Daniels is arrested for prostitution. When released, she severs her relationship with Ligourin and begins to make all her own contacts with customers. She moves into a small apartment and begins to worry that someone is following her.
After several months of investigating Tom Gruneman's disappearance, the FBI come to a dead end. Peter Cable hires John Klute to go to New York City and continue the investigation.
Klute moves into a basement apartment in the same building where Daniels lives. He taps her telephone and records her telephone conversations. He then contacts Daniels and asks for her help in solving Gruneman's disappearance. Although initially reluctant, Daniels eventually cooperates with Klute. They fall in love.
Klute learns that Jane McKenna (one of Frank Ligourin's three former prostitutes) is dead. Then Aryln Page (another of the three former prostitutes) is found dead.
As Klute's investigation continues, it becomes evident that:
(1) Peter Cable was the man who had mistreated Bree Daniels and the other two prostitutes of Frank Ligourin;
(2) Cable had used Tom Gruneman's name when he was with the prostitutes;
(3) Cable had murdered Tom Gruneman when Gruneman discovered his violence with prostitutes;
(4) Cable had murdered Jane McKenna and Arlyn Page;
(5) Cable had recorded the sexual encounters and murders on a small tape recorder; and (6) Cable wants to kill Bree Daniels.
It is unclear why Cable thought it necessary to try to frame Gruneman (by planting the typed letter to Daniels in Gruneman's desk) or why Cable hired Klute to continue the investigation when the FBI had come to a dead end.
Cable attempts to kill Daniels, but Klute arrives just in time to save Daniels and kill Cable.
Daniels moves to Pennsylvania with Klute.


