Baltimore industrialist Wendell Armbruster crosses paths with London shop girl Pamela Piggott when they come to Ischia to pick up the bodies of her mother and his father, who have been killed in an automobile accident after a ten-year summertime affair. Straitlaced Wendell tries to avoid a scandal while free-spirited Pamela is impressed by the romantic setting. After some confusion with the bodies and a blackmail attempt by unscrupulous locals, Wendell and Pamela extend their parent's affair into the next generation.
Harried straight-laced Baltimore-based business executive Wendell Armbruster, Jr. is rushing to Ischia, Italy to claim the body of his father, who died in a car accident. Wendell's father spent a month vacation by himself at the same Ischia resort every summer for the past ten years. On his way to Ischia, Wendell keeps bumping into a young English woman who seems to know who he is and who he thinks is following him. Upon arriving at the resort, he learns that she is Pamela Piggott, the daughter of his father's long term mistress, who also died in the accident. Pamela knew and accepted her mother's indiscretion, whereas Wendell knew nothing of his father's secret life. In addition to the shock he is feeling, Wendell is also feeling the stress of needing to get his father's body back to Baltimore in time for the service in three days, not an easy task due to the mound of legal red tape, the fact that no one works on Sunday (one of those three days) and that in Italy things move at a slower pace. Despite the differences in their viewpoints, Wendell and Pamela decide to honor their respective parent's memory by doing things in Ischia their parents would have done while he prepares to take his father's body home. Beyond the earlier mentioned issues, Wendell seems to face one problem after another in him and his father making it back to Baltimore on time and without scandal. Although Bruno, the resort's valet, is trying to extort a favor from Wendell, Bruno may end up being the answer to all Wendell's problems.
The arrogant and rude Vice-President of the Armbruster Industries Wendell Armbruster, Jr. travels to Ischia, in Italy, to retrieve the body of his father Wendell Armbruster, Sr., who died in a suddenly and tragic accident while driving back to Baltimore. During his trip, British woman Pamela Piggott tries to start a conversation with him, but the impolite executive pays no attention to her. In Ischia, the manager of Hotel Excelsior Carlo Carlucci welcomes Wendell telling him that it is a place that heals everything. He helps him with the Italian bureaucracy and to get a sealed zinc casket in Amalfi in order to release the corpse from the morgue. When Wendell meets Pamela at the hotel, he discovers that his father and her mother had been lovers for the past ten years. His father had met her mother every year from July 15th to August 15th. Wendell offers to help Pamela and they decide to follow the routine of his father and their mother, finding why the couple had had a such a long love affair.
A successful businessman goes to Italy to arrange for the return of his tycoon-father's body only to discover dad died with his mistress of long standing.
