Shankar (Dharmendra), Vijay (Vijay Arora), and Ratan (Tariq) are three brothers. On their father's birthday, their mother taught them a song titled "Yaadon Ki Baaraat" which they held dearly to their hearts. As fate may have it, one day, the boys' father witnessed a robbery by Shakaal (Ajit), and his henchmen. To protect their identity, Shakal decided to kill the boys' father before he could go to the police. So one night, Shakaal and his men storm into the boys' father's room and kill both their mother and father. Shankar and Vijay witness the act and flee. They make their way to a passing train, where Shankar is separated from Vijay. Several years pass by and the boys have grown up. Shankar is haunted by the memory of his parent's murder and is now joined by his friend Usman on a crime spree around the city. Vijay was adopted by a fairly wealthy man who is the grounds keeper to the love of his life, Sonita (Zeenat Aman) And Ratan, was raised by the boys' maid, and changed his name to Monto. With his new identity, Monto started a band and does gigs a hotels for a living. Their only hope of reuniting is by remembering the song their mother had taught them... Yaadon Ki Baaraat.
Shankar, Vijay and Ratan lives a poor lifestyle with there mom and dad, a painter by profession. When there dad witness a robbery; he and his wife are killed by a gang of masked men, with there three children bearing witness to this in which they eventually turn to different directions. Years later, they are now grown up young men: Shankar is a thief; Vijay is meek while Ratan sings in a hotel for the right amount. Shankar has high hope of one day finding the killer of his parents, his searches leads him to notorious smuggler Shakal and he begins to work as hit-man for Shakal, by first snatching a priceless diamond necklace, robbing a precious idol and hoodwink the police. Now Shankar is wanted by the police and has now enter the crime world so much that Shakal now asks him to abduct wealthy Sunita and hold her for a ransom. Not knowing that he has accepted a contract to abduct his brother's girlfriend which might create a rift between the brothers instead of they uniting and to make matters worse Shakal is non other than the killer of Shankar's parents and he has plan to do away with the off springs just as he had do away with there parents.
Shankar (Dharmendra) and Vijay (Vijay Arora) watch the death of their parents with horror as they are shot in front of their eyes by three masked men. While their brother Ratan (Tariq) is whisked away by their maid-servant, the two manage to get away with the help of the one of the three masked men, Jack (Satyen Kapoo). Unfortunately, the two brother separate. Shankar takes to a life of crime with the assistance of Ismail Batliwala. Vijay is rescued and taken care by an elderly Mr. Verma, who is employed by a wealthy family. While Ratan (Tariq) becomes singer Monto. The police eventually apprehend Jack and he is sentenced to jail for over 15 years. Shankar anxiously awaits his return so that he can extract his revenge. Vijay falls in love with the rich and wealthy Sunita (Zeenat Aman) and impersonates the rich Kunver Singh in order to meet Sunita's approval. Mr. Verma does not approve of this behavior. Sunita eventually comes to know of Vijay's real identity, and has nothing to do with him. In shame, Vijay relocates to the city where he works as a waiter in a hotel. Ironically, Shankar works for the owner of the hotel Shakhaal (Ajit); while Ratan sings in the same hotel as "Monto". None of the three brothers know of the other. Shankar is obsessed with revenge; Vijay hides in shame; while Ratan sings a song which could unite the three brothers. This was the song the family sang during happier times. But things get worse when Shakhaal finds out that Jack is out of prison, and has him killed. Then he abducts Sunita and eventually Vijay and Ratan, and invites Shankar to witness their deaths.
Three brothers are separated as children after their parents are murdered. The only way they can find each other is through a family song only the brothers know.
Three brothers are separated after their parents' murder. Years later, their only hope of avenging their parents and reuniting as a family lies in the song they learned as children.
