A million miles away from 'Camelot' or 'Excalibur', this film ruthlessly strips the Arthurian legend down to its barest essentials. Arthur's knights, far from being heroic, are conniving and greedy men who, just before the film starts, have failed miserably to find the Holy Grail. Aimlessly resentful at first, the developing relationship between Lancelot and Queen Guinevere focuses their rage, leading to inevitable tragedy...


First, we see some knights riding along thru a forest, and some of them are fighting, about three of them lose their fights, and cranberry juice comes squirting out of their severed necks. Some of the dead bodies are burning. We see a knight sweep some stuff off a table with his sword. Then there is a lot of red text scrolling up the screen in French, while the most IRRITATING music plays. It seems the knights set out to find the Holy Grail, but they didn't. We see one knight has gotten lost and an old woman offers to guide him. Then the credits roll. You might hope it's the end of the movie but no.
The knights come to a camp. Some are wounded. Lancelot is late (he's the one that was lost.) We see closeups of horse's eyes, terrified. There's no explanation of why, or why there are these weird sounds, such as a loud buzzer while Lancelot is reporting in, or the loud, annoying bell while some other stuff happens, also unexplained. Lancelot meets Guinevere in an old building full of hay, says he loves her but he can't be with her anymore - he learned this on his quest; it's wrong. These actors seem like they have all been drugged. She won't release him from a vow he made to her. She leaves and he stands there looking like Napoleon Dynamite. Fans of that movie might love this one, too.
Lancelot goes to some chapel meeting, nothing happens.
Three guys in black or dark grey armor walk around the round table. One says they can't use this room anymore, too many of the knights have died. Mordred comes in and the one guy tells him to go back out, and he does. The one guy wonders if all these deaths are a punishment from God? He tells the others to keep their armor on, stay in training, perfect themselves.
Some knights discuss this and say they despise Mordred. The queen's window is lit in the night, no clue why or why it's worthy of note. It's possible that the English subtitles are not a good translation, because they sure aren't very informative but it seems about what the guys are saying in French. Sir Gawain is puzzled, or offended, or joyous, or something, when he's told to pray - his face gives no clue.
Lancelot meets Guinever again in the barn. Still she will not release him from his vow. She thinks she is his strength. She still seems to be drugged. She Can't Live Without Him. Even tho he's about 50 and she's about 18. Then she looks up at him, back down. Then he looks up at her, back down. Then she looks up at him, back down. Then he looks up at her, back down. It's not clear what that was all about.
The knights are getting restless, you can tell because they are all standing facing right, having a chat together. Lancelot and Mordred talk; Mordred won't make friends. Lancelot and Gawain talk; Lancelot tells Gawain that Mordred won't make friends. To drive this home, Lancelot takes Gawain's favorite bridle and gives it to him, because it's his favorite.
The camera man likes to film stuff like the backs of the knights' legs as they walk away. This fills at least 50% of the footage after the mysterious opening scenes.
A guy is running a horse around in a circle. Another guy knows their luck's changing because the horse is twitching his ears.
I can't take this anymore. Someone else can watch the rest of it and finish this synopsis.


