A once-great silent film director, unable to make the transition to the new talkies, lives as a near-hermit in his Hollywood home, making cheap, silent sex films, and suffering in the knowledge of his sexual impotence, and apathetic about the plans to demolish his home to make way for a motorway. His producer and his producer's girlfriend come by to see how he is doing (and to supply heroin to the actress as her payment). The girlfriend stays to watch them filming, and is deeply impressed by his methods. When the actress goes to the bathroom, and dies there of an overdose, the girlfriend takes her place in the film. Then the producer returns...
A young, once-great Hollywood film director refuses to accept changing times during the early 1930s, and confines himself to his decaying mansion to make silent porn flicks.


The story takes place in Hollywood in the early 1930s, shortly after the start of the talkie period and set entirely inside the spacious living room of an otherwise decaying mansion. A visionary and gifted young Hollywood director (Richard Dreyfuss) known only by his nickname "The Boy Wonder" has fallen out of favor with the studios. This is ostensibly due to his reluctance to lower his standards to make the transition to "talky" films or abandon his artistic and experimental style (such as using a hand-held camera) for the sake of churning out lesser quality films for easy money, possibly due to his full-blown alcoholism.
The Boy Wonder, who is impotent, is willing to live in his decaying mansion shooting low quality stag films for little money instead of making a lucrative living shooting big budget mainstream films for larger audiences due to pride and principle. He shoots pornographic clips for the "syphilitic men who will pay 25 cents to watch them" and in support of his drinking problem. He works out of his mansion (never leaving it), which is the only one left on a street lot being turned into a freeway and he has received several eviction notices as well as late-payment notices to his water, gas and electricity.
The film opens at around 10:00 a.m on the morning of this one particular shoot. Boy Wonder sits alone at his piano playing it when a heroin-addicted waitress named Harlene (Veronica Cartwright) arrives. Boy Wonder recently hired Harlene who was once a well-known and respected star during the silent film era and she too is apparently reluctant to join the ranks of the "talkies" (mostly due to her unappealing, high-pitched, squeaky voice). She is now the star in the first of his six-picture deal which is filming on a crude set in his living room. We witness her preparing and shooting heroin along while The Boy Wonder drinks heavily during a conversation about the changing times in Hollywood.
An actor called Rex the Wonder Dog (Stephen Davies) soon arrives wearing a white suit with grass stains on his knees because he just came from his job working for a mortician. He is an intellectually unenlightened man, but due to his good looks and ability to take direction there is interest from concerned parties about his getting work in the mainstream talkies. It is also implied that he may be gay or bisexual.
The Boy Wonder awkwardly attempts to make an artistic film using an actress under the influence of heroin and an actor who becomes increasingly frustrated with the director and all of his poetic talk, much of which he admits he doesn't understand. The scene goes wrong when Rex becomes out of control during the sex action and The Boy Wonder needs to smash a wine bottle over his head to get him to stop having rough sex with Harlene.
Minutes later, Big Mac (Bob Hoskins), a porno film producer, enters. He has heroin packets in his jacket pocket, an unlit cigar in his mouth, wads of cash for Rex, and a pretty brunette wannabe actress hanging on his arm named Cathy Cake (Jessica Harper). Harlene takes her payment in heroin and soon dies from an overdose in an upstairs bathroom. Rex is the one who finds her body and everyone is upset over what to do next. The Boy Wonder wants to continue making the short film using the dead Harlene, but Rex refuses to have sex with a dead body.
Big Mac convinces Rex to help him carry away the dead body to bury it somewhere. They wrap up Harlene's dead body in a white sheet and carry it away out the front door, promising to return soon. While the two are away, Cathy and The Boy Wonder develop a chemistry that eventually leads to another ironic high point in the film. They talk for a long time about each others career in Hollywood. Then, Boy Wonder tries to convince Cathy to stand in for Harlene in the film by using "insert" shots of her nude body. Cathy refuses at first, but after she slips off all of her clothes, she becomes semi-aroused over being filmed and performs with Boy Wonder filming close up shots of her nude body. He then puts the camera down and makes love to her believing he has found something of a soul mate, but she is disappointed when she learns the camera was off throughout the tryst.
The Boy Wonder soon realizes that this romantic encounter with Cathy was simply a selfish ploy by her to get her into the film. The revelation is that Cathy Cake is really not the naive and innocent girl she has put out to everyone, but a crafty and troubled vixen who does anything to get her way. Big Mac and Rex return and finds both of them disheveled. In a jealous rage, Big Mac ends his six-picture stag film contract with The Boy Wonder, who by this time is completely drunk. Big Mac never less takes the reel of film that Boy Wonder shot anyway and leaves with Cathy and Rex. The final shot finds The Boy Wonder alone once again in his spacious living room sitting in the same spot where the movie began... and pondering what he'll eat for lunch since it is almost noon. (Note: the movie was set entirely in real time).

