Kabhi Kabhie is a romantic story about a young poet named Amit and a young and beautiful girl named Pooja, who both deeply love each other and decide to get married but destiny has other plans, as Pooja bows to the wishes of her parents and marries Vijay. However Amit drifts away from his poetry in a futile and unsuccessful attempt to leave behind his memories of Pooja by getting married to Anjali. Spanning over to the next generation, Pooja & Vijay's son Vicky and Shobha and R.P's daughter Pinky who love each other but things unravel as Pinky's parents tell her that she is not their daughter. So Pinky goes after her mother and we see she is Anjali's daughter. Sometimes later Anjali & Amit's daughter Sweetie comes in the picture and Sweetie feels jealous as her mother shows love more to Pinky as to her. Later Vicky comes and meets both the sisters, forming a love triangle between them, and a chain of events bring together old lovers as friends, some 20 years later is what forms the rest of Kabhi Kabhie.
A story spanning two generations, where two lovers are forced to marry against their will, but hold onto memories of their romance. Years later circumstances force them to confront their spouses, their children and each other.
Amitabh Malhotra loves to sing poems in college. Pooja his colleague, is attracted by this and introduces herself. They continue to meet, and fall in love. But Pooja's parents get her married with Vijay Khanna, a successful Architect. Amitabh is heartbroken, and gives up on poems. He meets with Anjali, and gets married to her. Years later, Pooja has given birth to a son, Vikram, while Amitabh has a daughter named Sweetie. Vikram loves Pinky Kapoor, and introduces her to his parents, who also approve of her. Then fate plays a trick once again, when Pinky is told that her biological mom is really Anjali Malhotra, she decides to give up her present family and re-locate, not knowing that by doing so, she is bringing the past back to life, a past that may well have been left untouched.
A love story spanning two generations... a film that happens SOMETIMES...


Kabhi Kabhie is a story about a young poet Amit (Amitabh Bachchan), and the young and beautiful Pooja (Rakhee Gulzar).
It is a story about how these two young and loveable hearts visualise a perfect future together But destiny has other plans, as Pooja bows to the wishes of her parents and marries Vijay (Shashi Kapoor). How Amit drifts away from his poetry in an futile and unsuccessful attempt to leave behind his memories of Pooja by getting married to Anjali (Waheeda Rehman ) How picture perfect is the life of Pooja and Vijay together is what a part of Kabhi Kabhie is about.
Spanning over to the next generation and how Pooja & Vijays son Vicky (Rishi Kapoor) and Anjalis daughter Pinky (Neetu Singh) from her relationship prior to Amit - And Anjali & Amits daughter Sweetie (Naseem) come together, and a chain of events bring together old lovers as friends, some 20 years later is what forms the rest of Kabhi Kabhie.
Kabhi Kabhie is a film about love story of generations - It is a film that happens "Sometimes".

