Joe Pendleton is a football quarterback preparing to lead his team to the Superbowl when he is almost killed in an accident. An overanxious angel plucks him to heaven only to discover that he was not ready to die, and that his body has been cremated. Another body must be found without his death being discovered, and that of a recently murdered millionaire is chosen. His wife and accountant, the murderers, are confused by this development, as he buys the Los Angeles Rams in order to once again quarterback them into the Superbowl. At the same time, he falls in love with an English environmental activist who disapproves of his policies and actions.
Joe Pendleton is a football quarterback, who has not been playing a great deal because of injuries. But now it appears he has fully recovered and the coach wants to make him the starting quarterback. But he goes out one day and an accident occurs and the next thing he knows he is on his way to heaven. But he convinces the man in charge, Mr. Jordan, that he isn't suppose to be here and upon checking Mr. Jordan discovers that he is right and tries to get him back into his body but his body has been cremated. Mr. Jordan tells him that they can put him in another man's body provided that the man's death has not been discovered. Mr. Jordan now shows him the body of Leo Farnsworth, who has just been killed by his wife and secretary. Joe does not want to take Farnsworth's body until a woman, Betty Logan, who has a problem with what Farnsworth's business is doing to her home, insists on meeting him. Joe is now taken with her and would like to help her but can only do it if he assumes Farnsworth's identity. And he does but unfortunately still acts like himself which perplexes everyone who knows Farnsworth especially his wife and secretary who are sure that they killed him and are on the edge of their seats wondering what he's going to do.
A Los Angeles Rams quarterback, accidentally taken away from his body by an overanxious angel before he was meant to die, returns to life in the body of a recently murdered millionaire.


Joe Pendleton (Warren Beatty) is a quarterback for the LA Rams, and has just been given a chance to start. He is an exercise fanatic, and while bicycling, he is hit by a car. He is plucked into a "way station" by his Escort (Buck Henry) by mistake. Joe refuses to go on to heaven, and by the time the Escort and Mr. Jordan (James Mason) realize this, his body has been cremated, and they cannot return him to his body.
Mr. Jordan allows Joe to see several candidate bodies (just before they die), offering Joe a chance to inhabit their body. He finally selects the body of a murdered millionaire, Leo Farnsworth. It turns out the millionaire was murdered by his wife Julia (Dyan Cannon) and assistant Tony (Charles Grodin). He makes his decision after seeing Betty Logan (Julie Christie), a teacher who is petitioning on behalf of a small town. Joe realizes he can help Betty as Farnsworth. He tries to explain to Betty that he's Joe, but she doesn't buy it.
Joe starts to assimilate into Farnsworth's life, but the lack of football is annoying. He's not very happy with the corporate cutthroat style, and amazes everyone with his new, more caring attitude. He uses football analogies to define his company's new direction, and people think he's crazy. Betty is impressed, and he takes her out to dinner - at a drive-thru. They fall in love, awkwardly.
The Escort tells Joe they have another body, but Joe has decided to get Farnsworth's body in shape instead. He tells Julia he wants a divorce, and Julia and Tony continue to try and kill him. He contacts his old trainer Max (Jack Warden) to get him into shape. He manages to convince Max that he's Joe. They start an exercise program, and get the staff to participate. He buys the team and announces he wants to play QB. During a scrimmage, Tony drops comments designed to get the players angry at Joe. The defense keeps jumping offside and punishing Joe, but Joe perserveres and wins the players over.
After the scrimmage, Joe hosts a party, and Julia and Tony see him wander off with Betty. He sees the Escort, who tells him he can't continue using Farnsworth's body. Joe tells Betty to remember him, and after she's gone, Tony shoots him. The body falls into a well and Joe and Mr. Jordan return to the way station. Meanwhile, the staff and police cannot find Farnsworth's body. During the investigation, Julia tries to pin the murder on Betty.
During the Super Bowl, the Rams QB gets mortally, injured, and Joe takes over his body. Watching the game, Max realizes Joe is in a new body and Tony cracks, blaming Julia for the murder. Joe wins the Super Bowl with the Rams, then Mr. Jordan appears and tells Joe that he won't remember being Joe - he's Tom Jarrett, the Rams QB now. Max doesn't realize Joe is now Tom, but finally comes to grips with it.
Betty comes to see Max and sees Joe/Tom in the hallway. They speak, and she sees glints of Joe in the new Tom. He invites her to have coffee, and they walk away together. The end.

