When a judge is charged with rape, Arthur Kirkland is forced to defend him. Kirkland has had problems with the judge in the past, including one incident when the judge wrongly sentenced his client Jeff McCullaugh because of a technicality. Kirkland faces a moral and legal dilemma.
Arthur Kirkland, an idealistic defense attorney in Baltimore, cares about his clients and visits his aging grandfather, who put him through law school, every week. Things aren't going well for Arthur: two of his clients are increasingly desperate, neither should be in prison, his partner is behaving bizarrely, he's begun an affair with an attorney who's on the bar's disciplinary committee, his favorite judge may have a death wish, and then, the judge he dislikes most, a by-the-book martinet, demands that Arthur defend him when he's accused of a brutal assault on a young woman. Is there any way to expose real corruption and find justice for all?
A lawyer, Arthur Kirkland, challenges the US legal system as he defends innocent people who are convicted of crimes they did not commit, and a guilty judge he is forced to defend who tries to use his status in court to aquitt himself. Kirkland is disgusted with the corrupt courts and tries to bring justice to people who are innocent and punishment to people who are guilty.
A lawyer (Al Pacino) is forced to defend a guilty judge, while defending other innocent clients, and trying to find punishment for the guilty and provide justice for the innocent.


This first appeared on www.realmoviereview.com
This has become a courtroom movie classic. Today, the cheesy soundtrack music, the old-fashioned effects, the characters casual sexuality and the rage-against-the-man mindset seem dated, but the strong acting, which included one of Al Pacinos many Oscar nominations, combined with a screenplay that is alternately touching, funny and adversarial is still compelling.
Al Pacino is Arthur Kirkland, a sharp defence lawyer with a heart, who is dealing with a witch-hunting ethics tribunal, crazy and arrogant judges, an ill grandfather, a law partner (Tambor) on the verge of a nervous breakdown, and a new relationship. He definitely did not need the crazy new case that lands on his lap in the form of his least favourite judge, Henry T. Fleming. Soon, Arthur is faced with some decisions that will challenge his beliefs and affect his future.
This classic is dated but still well worth seeing for Pacino fans and those who enjoy the Hollywood legal system. The performances and story are excellent and the ending is remembered as vividly today as when people first saw in 1979.


