Forty-two year old Isaac Davis has a romanticized view of his hometown, New York City, most specifically Manhattan, as channeled through the lead character in the first book he is writing, despite his own Manhattan-based life being more of a tragicomedy. He has just quit his job as a hack writer for a bad television comedy, he, beyond the ten second rush of endorphins during the actual act of quitting, now regretting the decision, especially as he isn't sure he can live off his book writing career. He is paying two alimonies, his second ex-wife, Jill Davis, a lesbian, who is writing her own tell-all book of their acrimonious split. The one somewhat positive aspect of his life is that he is dating a young woman named Tracy, although she is only seventeen and still in high school. Largely because of their differences a big part of which is due to their ages, he does not see a long term future with her. His life has the potential to be even more tragicomical when he meets journalist Mary Wilkie, the mistress of his best friend, college professor Yale Pollack. Although Isaac's first impression of Mary is that she is a pretentious intellectual, he falls for her. They do become friends with the potential of becoming more than just friends as she knows that being the "other woman" in Yale's life is not a long term role that she wants. An Isaac/Mary coupling may complicate matters even more with Yale being mutually in their lives. Regardless, Isaac may be able to rationalize events after they happen, no matter what those events are.
Isaac is a twice divorced New York writer with a 17 year-old girlfriend, Tracy, who has quit his job and is now afraid his upcoming book won't provide him with much of an income. It doesn't help that one of his ex-wives is also writing a book about their time together. He meets the somewhat pretentious Mary - who is seeing his married friend Yale - and he immediately takes a disliking to her. As they meet again however they begin to take an interest in each other and eventually fall in love. Tracy has a scholarship to a school in Europe and Isaac encourages her to take it, saying there is no future for them given the differences in their ages and the fact that he loves Mary. When Mary rekindles her affair with Yale, Isaac is left in the middle.
Isaac, 42, has divorced Jill. She is now living with another woman, Connie, and is writing a book in which she will reveal some very private points of their relationship. Isaac has a love affair with Tracy, 17, when he meets Mary, the mistress of his best friend Yale. Yale is already married to Emily.
In Manhattan, Isaac Davis is a divorced writer of TV shows unhappy with his job. His ex-wife left him to live with another woman and is writing a book about her relationship with Isaac. He presently dates a seventeen years old high-school student, Tracy, who is in love with him, but he does not like her. When he meets Mary Wilkie, the mistress of his married best friend Yale, he has a crush on her. He finishes with Tracy and has an affair with Mary, affecting the lives of many persons including his own.
The life of a divorced television writer dating a teenage girl is further complicated when he falls in love with his best friend's mistress.


The film opens with a montage of images of Manhattan accompanied by George Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue. TV writer Isaac Davis (
Woody Allen
), is introduced as a man writing a book about his love for New York City. He is a twice-divorced 42-year-old dealing with the women in his life, who gives up his unfulfilling job as a comedy writer at a local TV station.
Isaac is currently dating Tracy (
Mariel Hemingway
), a 17-year old high school girl attending Dalton. His best friend Yale Pollack (
Michael Murphy
), is a college professor who is married to Emily (
Anne Byrne Hoffman
). But Yale is having an affair with Mary Wilkie (
Diane Keaton
); her ex-husband and former teacher Jeremiah (
Wallace Shawn
) also appears now and then. Isaac's ex-wife, Jill (
Meryl Streep
), is writing a confessional book about their marriage. Jill has also since come out of the closet as a lesbian and lives with her partner, Connie (Karen Ludwig), and they are both raising Isaac and Jill's 10-year-old son.
When Isaac meets Mary for the first time, her cultural snobbery rubs him the wrong way. Isaac runs into her again at an Equal Rights Amendment fund-raising event at the Museum of Modern Art hosted by Bella Abzug (who is played by herself) and accompanies her on a taxi ride home. They chat until sunrise in a sequence that culminates in the iconic shot of the Queensboro Bridge.
In spite of a growing attraction to Mary, Isaac continues his relationship with Tracy but emphasizes that theirs cannot be a serious relationship and encourages her to go to London to study acting. In another iconic scene, at Tracy's request, they go on a carriage ride through Central Park.
After Yale breaks up with Mary, he suggests that Isaac ask her out. Isaac does, always having felt that Tracy was too young for him. Isaac breaks up with Tracy, much to her dismay, and before long, Mary has virtually moved into his apartment.
Emily is curious about Isaac's new girlfriend, and after several meetings between the two couples, including one where Emily reads out portions of Jill's new book about her marriage with Isaac, she confronts Yale about Mary. As a result, Yale leaves Emily to resume his relationship with Mary who moves in with Yale after Emily moves out and breaks up with Isaac. A betrayed Isaac confronts Yale at the college where he teaches, and Yale argues that "he found Mary first". Isaac angrily responds by discussing Yale's extramarital affairs with Emily, but Yale had already told her that Isaac introduced Mary to him. In the denouement, Isaac lies on his sofa alone in his apartment, musing into a tape recorder about the things that make "life worth living". When he finds himself saying "Tracy's face", he sets down the microphone.
He leaves his apartment and sets out on foot for Tracy's. He arrives at the lobby of her family's apartment just as she is leaving for London. He says that she does not have to go and that he does not want "that thing about her that he likes" to change. She replies that the plans have already been made and reassures him that "not everybody gets corrupted" before saying "you have to have a little faith in people." He gives her a slight smile, (implying that they might get back together in the future) segueing into final shots of the skyline with some bars of Rhapsody in Blue playing again.
An instrumental version of "Embraceable You" plays over the credits.

