Comical goings on at an exclusive golf club. All the members are wealthy and eccentric, and all the staff are poor and slightly less eccentric. The main character is 'Danny'; he's a caddy who will do almost anything to raise money to go to college. There are many subplots, including the assistant green keeper's pursuit of a cute (obviously stuffed) gopher.
Danny Noonan is a young caddy at Bushwood Country Club who has no idea about where his future will lead. His best chance at getting his life on track is to earn a caddy scholarship from Judge Elihu Smails, the owner of the Country Club. Al Czervik is a rude, and overly eccentric millionaire who has interests in purchasing Bushwood. Judge Smails shows a quick disliking towards Al and soon there is a conflict between the Judge and Al, the Judge and Danny, and even between the Judge and Ty Webb the charming golfer who is slowly helping Danny figure out his real goals. On the outside of this is Carl Spackler the Golf Course Grounds keeper, who's goal is eliminate a rampaging gopher who is chewing up holes throughout the golf course.
A millionaire wants to turn a golf course into a new property development, but the president of the golf club doesn't like the idea. This is the basic 'plot' which hides behind the many antics of the employees and players on the golf course.
An exclusive golf course has to deal with a brash new member and a destructive dancing gopher.


It's the Slobs vs. the Snobs at exclusive, blue-blood Bushwood Country Club. Judge Smails (Ted Knight) tries desperately to maintain the dignity of the institution, even as boorish outsiders like real estate developer Al Czervik (Rodney Dangerfield) intrude on the serenity of the place.
The working-class caddies, such as Danny Noonan (Michael O'Keefe), try to earn a little money and the slightest crumb of respect from the wealthy patrons who golf there. Noonan tries desperately to ontain the Bushwood (college) scholarship, though his efforts to kiss up to the Judge Smails prove futile. After a series of misadventures, and a climactic final gold tournament, Czervik shows the Judge who's really the best golfer at Bushwood.

