Vijay Varma (Amitabh Bachchan) and Ravi Kapoor (Shatrughan Sinha) are two close childhood friends. When they thought they have matured enough they decides to enter law policy: one as a police officer and another as a lawyer. There lives takes a turn when both reaches a woman named Sheetal Sahni (Zeenat Aman) at different places and time respectively. Both fell in love with her and does not relate each others emotion to one another. Then an old enemy of Vijay named Mr. Daaga (Prem Chopra) enters the scene and deploys such a way that will create misunderstandings between the two friends forever.
Two childhood friends: Vijay Varma and Ravi Kapoor are on the opposite sides of the law. Vijay is a dedicated police inspector while Ravi is the town's best barrister. Both swears not to question each other about there careers and thus there friendship continue to blossom. Vijay create problems for the criminals especially Mr. Dagga and Balwant Singh; and then one day Vijay meets a wealthy yet beautiful young woman, Sheetal Sahni and both slowly begins to fall in love, unknown to both that Ravi have romantic feelings for Sheetal. Here is where Vijay and Ravi's friendship will break way and Dagga will not lose this opportunity to add fuel to the fire.
Vijay and Ravi are best friends (hence the name 'Dostana') who do not even question each other about their careers. Vijay, a police officer and Ravi, a lawyer, while the former catches the criminals who smuggle, Ravi on the other hand bail those criminals, employed by Daaga. One day, both Vijay and Ravi meet Sheetal at different places and times, and both fancy the same girl, Sheetal, but Vijay's love was more serious. Ravi admits his love for Sheetal to Vijay and is devastated but Vijay decides to sacrifice his love and give Sheetal's hand. However, there was a misunderstanding when Daaga decided to stir up Vijay and Ravi's friendship by showing a photo of Vijay and Sheetal to Ravi. They became rivals for the first time and Ravi started to turn to be an enemy of Vijay. Do their friendship recover? Does Ravi get to know the truth? Do Sheetal get back with Vijay?
Two childhood friends, Ravi Kapoor and Vijay Verma, are now grown up and have chosen law and policing respectively as their careers. While Ravi is a renowed defense lawyer, Vijay is a dedicated Police Inspector. Their friendship is threatened when both unknowingly fall in love with the same woman, Shalini Sahni. Ravi's underworld clientele come to know of this triangle, and create even more misunderstandings between the two friends, with considerable success, making the two friends, bitter enemies.
