In order to track down bail jumpers, Ralph 'Papa' Thorson goes on a series of routine and not-so-routine searches. Sometimes he takes down his quarry easily. At other times, he's forced to extreme measures which result in the injury or death of a lawbreaker. And then again, there are other moments when his own life is on the line. It's all enough to make Thorson question what he has done with his life.
Biography depicting real-life bounty hunter Ralph "Papa" Thorson and his exploits of bringing criminals to jail who jumped bail. He also has a pregnant girlfriend who's expecting a child soon. Subplot involves an old enemy seeking revenge at Thorson for bringing him to jail.
The story of professional bounty hunter Ralph "Papa" Thorson.


There's a lot going on in the life of bounty hunter Ralph "Papa" Thorson, who has apprehended more than 5,000 criminals and bail jumpers.
At home, Thorson is an old-fashioned guy who has a love of antiques and classical music, drives a 1950s convertible and keeps an antique gasoline pump in his house. His schoolteacher girlfriend Dotty is pregnant and would like "Papa" to be there for her when the baby is born, but his work continually keeps him on the road.
Thorson chases down fugitives in Illinois, Texas, and Nebraska as he himself is pursued by a psychotic killer who was one of Thorson's former convicts, Rocco Mason. He brings back the fugitive Tommy Price but vouches for him, Tommy eventually becoming one of the many acquaintances who hang out at Papa's house.
Bail bondsman Blumenthal sends him out after a dangerous punk whose kinfolk include Sheriff Strong, a lawman who warns Thorson not to get involved. Papa ignores him and ends up in a violent fight with the fugitive, who is so huge, even a Taser barely stops him.
Thorson's adventures continue in a cornfield, where men in a tractor try to mow him down, and in a circular parking structure in Chicago, where the car Papa is pursuing plunges several stories into a river. Another wanted man leads Thorson on a chase through Chicago atop a fast-moving train.
Meanwhile, back home, Rocco Mason has begun terrorizing Dotty at her school, daring Thorson to come after him. Thorson comes to her rescue but immediately needs to rush Dotty to the hospital. Exhausted, he gets through the day just in time to hold his new baby.

