When the Earth is destroyed a Vogon Demolition Fleet to make way for a new hyperspace bypass, Arthur Dent joins his friend Ford Prefect (who turns out to be a researcher for an electronic reference guide called the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy) for a galactic voyage on which they meet Zaphod Beeblebrox, a two-headed ex-President of the Galaxy, and his human companion, Trillian. Their journey takes them from the remains of Earth to Milliways, the Restaurant at the End of the Universe. Based on a radio play by Douglas Adams.
Arthur Dent awakes one morning and finds his house is going to be demolished, but for Arthur, the demolition of his house is only the beginning, when his friend, eccentric Ford Prefect reveals to Arthur he is not a human and he is a alien from a planet called Beetleguise and is a researcher for a electronic book called "The Hitch-Hikers Guide to the Galaxy." Ford saves Arthur when the Earth is destroyed by the Vogans so the Vogons can begin construction of a new hyperspace bypass. Joined by Ford's cousin, Zaphod Beeblebrox, a two-headed hippie-like former intergalactic President, Intelligent Human woman Trillian and Marvin, a depressed paranoid android, Arthur and Ford embark on a intergalactic adventure, which leads them to The Restraunt at the End of the Universe, discovering the creation of Earth and discovering the meaning of life.
Arthur Dent is having one of those days when you have trouble taking in all the information you get. He hardly has time to take in the fact that his friend Ford Prefect wasn't born on Earth before he learns that the Earth is going to be destroyed. He hardy has time to take in the fact that he has just been thrown into the vacuum of space when he learns that he's on a hijacked spaceship with a galactic celebrity. His adventures bring him to Milliways, the Restaraunt at the End of the Universe, where he has time to go over his quest to find the meaning of life during dinner, until a time travel accident lands him and Ford back on Earth, with no companion but the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. He is in for one hell of a ride.
An Earth man and his alien friend escape Earth's destruction and go on a truly strange adventure as space hitchhikers.
