Although orphaned at very young ages, Scriptwriter Amit and military pilot Shekhar are brothers and also very good friends. The latter is happily engaged to Shobha, while the former has just fallen in love with pretty, young Chandni. But tragedy strikes when Shekhar's plane is shot down in Kashmir. Amit feels it to be his obligation to leave the girl he loves and marry his brother's pregnant fiancée instead. But when, by an unexpected turn, Amit and the now also married Chandni meet again, their love for each other proves to be stronger than their marital vows.
Scriptwriter Amit and military pilot Shekhar are brothers and also very good friends. The latter is happily engaged to Shobha, while the former has just fallen in love with pretty, young Chandni. But tragedy strikes when Shekhar's plane is shot down in Kashmir. Amit feels it to be his obligation to leave the girl he loves and marry his brother's pregnant fiancée instead. But when, by an unexpected turn, Amit and the now also married Chandni meet again, their love for each other proves to be stronger than their marital vows...
Although orphaned at very young ages, Shekhar and Amit Malhotra are survivors and lead independent lives with Shekhar being a Squadron Leader with the Indian Air Force, and Amit a struggling writer. While Shekhar has fallen in love with lovely Shobha, Amit woos an attractive Chandni. Both brothers plan to marry together. But fate has something much worse in store for them when Shekhar is killed in a plane crash, leaving behind a pregnant and devastated Shobha. Taking pity on Shobha's plight, Amit marries her and writes to Chandni to forget him. This news breaks Chandni's heart, and she goes on to marry Dr. V.K. Anand, who is very much in love with her. Tragedy strikes once more, and Shobha loses her child in a car accident. With no child to tie them together, both drift apart, Amit meets Chandni and they secretly rekindle their romance. They meet on the sly, until one day when Chandni accidentally hits a passer-by. The police get involved, but Amit manages to hush the matter up. But their secret meetings will no longer be secret anymore for the Police Inspector in charge of this accident is none other than Shobha's cousin, Kulbhushan, and he is determined to expose Amit's affair with Chandni.
A story of love lost and found, but twisted by society's demands and conventions to appear as adultery.


Far away from suspicions and self-love, somewhere close, very close to trust. Heart woke up with a mirage that she loves me.
Is it love or a dream?
Amit's dream - the sequence of dreams, the sequence of love. One face, one hope, one smile. A search, a poignancy, a happiness, the world, a voice, a song. One dream, one illusion, one faith.
Everything merged into a face - a face called Chandni. Chandni and Amit, between them flowered an eloquent love - the music vibrated. Both set out step by step on a journey as co-travellers, but the idyll did not last.
Amit approached Shobha to wipe her tears, gave up all his happiness. Now he had nothing except live embers of memories. Every heart beat of Amit was coaxing him to remember some and forget the others. Shobha had stepped into his life. Shobha - silence personified, a summit, a worship. She was not a dream but a reality - truth, a faith.
Amit, Shobha and Chandni were not just three names - but three directions, three human beings bound by love - three facets of love. Dreams of these three were scattered by the mists of life.
What does it matter if some dream ends in a calamity?
Time cannot minimise the intensity of feelings, distance does not strangle self-awareness. Down memory lane, the happenings of the past, on deserted paths, the forgotten promises. How can one recall?
The sequence of memories began pulsating in one's veins. Each one now lived a cloistered life - some for himself, some for others. Their decisions were dwarfed by high walls of rumination. Society imposed its own barriers. Time brooding between the past and future stood up on uncertain legs and the three of them became aware of man's insignificance- in keeping with the world's negation from beginning to end.
Only love implies mutual trust.
It is a never-ending sequence

