It's 1846. Sweeney Todd and Anthony Hope, greeted only by a crazed beggar woman, sail into London, where Todd implies he has been before but not in quite some time. Todd heads to his old stomping grounds of Fleet Street, where he runs across the pie shop belonging to Mrs. Nellie Lovett, who professes to make the worst meat pies in London due to the high cost of meat. The upstairs of her building has sat empty since no one wants to rent a space that is considered haunted by its long ago tenant, barber Benjamin Barker who was falsely accused and ultimately sentenced by the sadistic Judge Turpin and who was shipped away to prison in Australia, leaving his wife Lucy and infant daughter Johanna alone in the world. Todd comes to an agreement with Mrs. Lovett to rent the upstairs of her building so that he can open his own barber shop. A series of incidents, including one with rival barber Senor Pirelli, make Todd change his focus slightly away from having a choice encounter with Judge Turpin and his equally sadistic henchman Beadle Bamford, which was one of the reasons he returned to London. Mrs. Lovett believes this change can only help her pie shop. Meanwhile, upon sighting each other, Anthony and Johanna fall in love at first sight. Johanna is now the ward of Judge Turpin, who has his own incompatible wants with her. Todd and Mrs. Lovett's collaboration as well as Anthony's pursuit of Johanna take marked turns with a number of revelations, most specifically about the crazed beggar woman and Mrs. Lovett's motivations.
Benjamin Barker alias Sweeney Todd, returns to London after being deported to find out what happened to his wife and child at the hands of Judge Turpin. When he learns of their terrible fate he joins fortunes with Mrs. Nellie Lovett, the baker downstairs from his barbershop, and sets out to seek revenge.
Times are hard in 1846 London and one must make do. Nellie Lovett adds something extra to the meat pies she peddles on Fleet Street. The secret ingredient: freshly murdered victims of her partner in crime, barber Sweeney Todd. Composer/lyricist Stephen Sondheim refashions a macabre tale into a musical masterwork in this dazzling performance of the 1979 Broadway hit originally staged by Harold Prince. In her Tony-winning role, Angela Lansbury plays Nellie. George Hearn turns his stage role of twisted Sweeney into an Emmy-winning triumph. The score coils around itself in every-tightening spirals. The lines ripple with black humor and madness. Enter Sweeney's tonsorial parlor. Attend the tale.
Benjamin Barker, a skilled barber with a lovely wife who is pregnant with their child, suddenly loses everything. He is sent away on a trumped-up charge to prison at Botany Bay, by the nefarious Judge Turpin, who has designs on his wife. Fast-forward some years later, when Benjamin escapes with help from the steadfast friendly sailor Anthony Hope. Returning to London and taking the name Sweeney Todd, he seeks to find out what has happened to his family. Mrs. Nellie Lovett, the widow who ran the bakery downstairs from Barker's shop, (and always had a crush on him), tells him of their horrible fate, which sends Barker/Todd over the edge into madness, consumed by the thirst for revenge against the Judge. Ever-practical, with the possibility of murder and mayhem afoot, Mrs. Lovett thinks of a fiendishly clever way that they can both make a killing...literally. But she hasn't been forthcoming about everything, unbeknownst to her new partner, and the engines of Fate begin to grind and roar, bearing all the parties involved to an unexpected and devastating denouement...
Sweeney Todd returns to London to uncover the past, along the way meeting Mrs. Lovett, and begins to start his life of crime.
