In 1934 Paris, trained coloratura soprano Victoria Grant, a native Brit, can't get a job as a singer and is having trouble making ends meet. She doesn't even have enough money for the basics of food and shelter. Gay cabaret singer Carole 'Toddy' Todd may befall the same fate as Victoria as he was just fired from his singing gig at a second rate club named Chez Lui. To solve both their problems, Toddy comes up with what he considers an inspired idea: with Toddy as her manager, Victoria, pretending to be a man, get a job singing as a female impersonator. If they pull this scheme off, Toddy vows Victoria, as her male alter ego, will be the toast of Paris and as such be extremely wealthy. That alter ego they decide is Polish Count Victor Grazinski, Toddy's ex-lover who was disowned by his family when they found out he was gay. The Count auditions for the city's leading agent, Andre Cassell, who, impressed, gets him a gig performing in the city's best nightclub. In the audience on the successful opening night is Chicago nightclub owner and "businessman" King Marchand, a stereotypical macho male who falls in the love with the woman he sees on stage, which doesn't sit well with his current girlfriend, Norma Cassady. King is shocked to learn that that woman is a man named Count Grazinski. While King tries to reconcile his romantic feelings for "Victoria" (in truth, King doesn't truly believe the Count is a man), his business associates won't tolerate his change in sexual orientation. Although feeling emancipated being treated as a man, Victoria, as herself, in turn falls in love with King. To pursue something with him as a woman would mean giving up this lucrative career. But the career may also come to an end in a jail term if the authorities find out that Victoria and Toddy have committed fraud in this impersonation.
Set in 1930s Paris, starving opera singer Victoria (Julie Andrews) is aided by gay cabaret performer Toddy (Robert Preston). When Victoria dons Toddy's ex's clothes and then sends the abusive ex flying with a booming shout and an equally booming right hook, Toddy is hit with inspiration: he'll pass her off as a female impersonator. A woman pretending to be a man pretending to be a woman? It all goes well until Chicago "businessman" King Marchand (James Garner), starts to investigate, sure that a man like himself could never fall for another man! The revelation of Kings infatuation brings his body guard 'Squash' Bernstein (Alex Karras) roaring out of the closet and his spurned moll Norma Cassady (brilliantly acted by Leslie Ann Warren) off to Chicago to plan revenge with King's other "business associates".
Victoria is a poverty-stricken soprano trying to find work in Paris in the 1930's. With the help of a worldly-wise nightclub singer, she invents her alter-ego Victor, a female impersonator who is hired to sing at a fashionable night spot. "You want me to be a woman pretending to be a man pretending to be a woman?" Interwoven throughout the comedy and musical numbers are some surprisingly astute observations about gender perceptions, discrimination and the battle of the sexes.
A struggling female soprano finds work playing a male female impersonator, but it complicates her personal life.


In Paris 1934, Victoria Grant is a talented but poor soprano singer looking for work. She is in extremely dire straits: she offers to sleep with her hotel manager for her rent and her next meal, and later when she auditions at the Chez Lui nightclub she is rejected by its snooty head waiter Labisse. During the audition, she meets Carroll Todd (aka Toddy), a sharp-tongued but kind homosexual singer working at the Chez Lui; when Toddy discovers during work that his partner Richard has been cheating on him, his acid retorts set off a riot and Labisse fires him. The two meet again and befriend each other at a restaurant, where they get out of paying a full-course meal by planting cockroaches into the food.
Victoria spends a rainy night over at Toddys apartment, and the next morning dresses up in Richards clothes since hers were ruined by the rain. When Richard arrives and insults Toddy for his troublemaking at Chez Lui, Victoria punches him out and orders him in a deep masculine voice to leave and never come back. Watching her performance, Toddy hits upon a brilliant scheme: Victoria will pose as a man, the female impersonator Count Victor Grasinski, a hitherto unheard singer who Todd took as his lover and whose talent is guaranteed to become renowned.
Toddys plan goes off successfully: Victor is a great success and becomes the toast of Paris. Then American gangster King Marchand arrives in Paris on vacation, with his bodyguard Squash Bernstein and his moll Norma Cassidy. King is quite taken with the female Victor, which upsets Norma until they learn Victor is a female impersonator and thus a man. Norma is delighted, but King is confused by his feelings for Victor and becomes obsessed with him, to the point where he is unable to perform in bed with Norma and sends her back to America.
Marchand starts to investigate Victor, trying to find out just what it is that attracts him. He spies on Victor while taking a bath (possibly learning of Victoria?), and later takes him and Toddy to Chez Lui. When Richard arrives at the restaurant, yet another riot breaks out there, and this time results in the club getting closed down. King escapes the ruckus with Victor and declares his love, saying it doesnt matter if he is a man. Victoria, who has been equally attracted to King, reveals herself, and the two consummate their relationship. Squash bursts in on the two making love, and seeing King with a man encourages Squash to reveal that he himself is gay; he later learns about Victoria, but develops a romance with Toddy.
Although King and Victoria are in love, things start to get complicated: Victoria is unwilling to give up her Victor persona since its made her a star, and King wishes she would drop it, for their sake and his (being seen with a homosexual was not a good thing back in the 1930s). Both attempt to keep the relationship short-term and do gay stuff together, but eventually things get too unfulfilling and frustrating for them. To make matters worse, Labisse suspects Victor of being the singer hed rejected, and hires a private investigator to investigate him.
Eventually, Victoria decides her successful career isnt worth its complications and heartaches and decides to renounce Victor and become a woman again. Her decision is compounded by two events. Firstly, Kings mobster associate Sal heard about Kings homosexuality from his new moll Norma, and since the mob doesnt tolerate homosexuality King must sign over all he has to Sal; Victoria reveals herself to save King, to Normas rage. Secondly, Labisse brings the police to arrest Victoria, but is foiled by Toddy dressing up as Victor and going to perform.
The film ends with Victor Grasinski (still Toddy) making a swansong appearance, performing a cabaret number to the delight of Victoria and King and Squash.

