Made for television version of the Charles Dickens classic of the same name. Ebenezer Scrooge is a hard-nosed, single-minded businessman in Victorian London. He has disowned his only living relative - his nephew Fred - and generally treats everyone he meets with extreme contempt. He hates Christmas, only cares about making money and only gives his clerk, Bob Cratchit, the day off. However, he is taught the true meaning and spirit of Christmas by three ghosts who show him his own past and present. He is also shown what the future holds for him if he doesn't change his behavior.
Ebenezer Scrooge is an old bitter miser who cares only about making money. He has no friends, has disowned his only living relative - his nephew Fred - and generally treats everyone he meets with extreme contempt. He particularly loathes Christmas, which he a sees as an excuse for picking a man's pocket once a year, and only reluctantly give his clerk, Bob Cratchit, the day off. On Christmas Eve however, he is visited by the ghost his long dead partner, Jacob Marley, who begs him to change his ways. Refusing to do so, he's told that three ghosts - the Ghosts of Christmas Past, Present and that which is Yet to Come - will visit him that night. In doing so, they show him what he has lost and what he will leave behind after he is gone unless he mends his ways.
An old bitter miser who makes excuses for his uncaring nature learns real compassion when three ghosts visit him on Christmas Eve.


Ebeneezer Scrooge is introduced as a hard-nosed, single-minded businessman in Victorian London. After a day in which he is approached for donations to charities, invited to Christmas dinner by his nephew, and does a bit of business at the Exchange, he arrives home to see the image of his late partner, Jacob Marley, on the door knocker. Jacob's ghost soon visits him and announces the coming visits of three spirits. The ghosts of Christmas Past, Christmas Present, and Christmas Yet To Come take Scrooge on a journey of self-discovery and change his life forever.
I must add a few things to this very good Scrooge tale especially since I was 20 when it was first on and I have watched it ever since. Mr. Scott underplays the role bit from the great Alistair Sim version (number 1 in my book) but is no less effective. Especially in the scene where he visits his nephew and meets his wife. When explaining the games they play, he is even better that Mr. Sim (no small compliment) with a bit more humor.
In addition the movie benefits from the Ghost of Christmas Present played by Edward Woodward. No milquetoast ghost he but one whom issues comments worthy of his physical size! In his portrayal he is for the most part happy and boisterous, showing Scrooge what uses all these things people buy for Christmas are put to. His lines reminding Scrooge about Tiny Tim's affliction and if he is to die to be quick about it, are delivered with such force, conviction and a touch of sardonic humor, that it feels like a cold slap in the face to Scrooge when he hears his own words thrown back at him.
Two more things to mention. One is the glorious music played throughout, at times like an English march, that relieves some of the misery of the times. Second the breadth of the cast. Mr. Sim has top honors for the best Scrooge, but this Carol shows more of the surroundings of London with the addition of more actors. Highly recommended!

