Jack Watson is celebrating his 81st birthday. He is a charismatic, successful patriarch who still enjoys life. He makes a wish that he could be 18 again. Later he is living it up with his grandson, when the car they are driving in crashes, and their souls are switched. After the crash, 18 year old David Watson's body, with 81 year old Jack's mind (George Burns voice), is fine, but Jack's body is in a coma, presumably with David's mind trapped there. Walking in David's shoes, Jack discovers that David is really interested in art and not the family business. He meets David's friends and they go out in the middle of the night to paint murals. He also transforms David's performance on the track, where in the long distance events, David has been a laughing stock, now he becomes a contender to beat the #1 favorite jock on the team. After various hijinks, David's parents show up to tell him they have decided to take grandpa Jack off of life support. David (really Jack), rushes to the hospital, their souls switch back, and Jack (himself now) wakes up from the coma. He then has a heart to heart with Jack, and encourages him to win the track championship race. The day of the race comes, and David, with new found confidence, wins the race on the last lap.
By means of an accident the soul of David and his swinging grandfather get swapped. While the grandfather's body is still in coma, he enjoys having a young body again and repairs some facts in David's life, who he finds not to be self-confident enough.
Jack Watson is an 81 year old businessman, who is not exactly liked by his son, and who is pushing his meek grandson, David to excel in athletics as he did. At his birthday party, before blowing out the candles he's asked to make a wish and his wish is to be 18 again. While out with David they get into a car accident and when he wakes up, he discovers that he is now in David's body and David is in his body which is comatose. He then goes out to enjoy himself but at the same discovers just how tough David has it in school and finds out how his girlfriend, Madeline feels about him, and also how his son feels about him.
