Love comes to Chandni (Sridevi) and Rohit (Rishi Kapoor) in one breathless moment as if time and hearts have stopped. They plan the happiness of the shared future. But life has other plans. In one cruel stroke of fate, Chandni faces life alone, her heart and her dreams shattered. Then she meets Lalit (Vinod Khanna). Lalit, whose eyes are dark with the shadows of the tragic memories of his first love. But in Chandni's smile he sees a wonderful radiance that for the first time chases those shadows away. Lalit's affecton gives a new direction to Chandni's life, till one day, she meets Rohit again. Now all three stand at the crossroads of love, pawns with the game that love plays with life. Who will win? Life or love?
Rohit Gupta, an eligible wealthy bachelor meets with poor, Chandni Mathur and both is attracted to each other to the extent that both will do anything for the other sake. Both spend beautiful moments with each other and plans to get married but there love is opposed by Rohit's family especially his mom who will not permit Rohit to marry below his class. Soon Rohit meets with an accident by falling off a flying helicopter and is paralyzed as he looses the use of his two feet, Chandni is also ill-treated by Rohit's family members. Unable to bear this and not wanting to be dependent on anyone Rohit decides to humiliated Chandni and get rid of her. She soon relocates to a new city, Bombay and takes up job in a travel agency and meets up with a heart-broken employee, Lalit Khanna who is head over heels in love with her and proposes marriage to which she agrees. Unknown to her that Rohit had undergo a surgery that now makes him absolutely fit and will once again reappear in her life and this is where her past will slowly but surely starts to dawn on her.
On the very first meeting itself, the beautiful Chandni and handsome, yet wealthy Rohit fall head over heels in love with each other and the dating begins. When Rohit proposes marriage to Chandni she immediately agrees but Rohit's family disagree since Chandni is not of wealthy grounds. Going against his family's wishes; Rohit engages Chandni. All is well in the beginning for the couple until Rohit meets with an accident and is paralyzed unable to move; then Chandni became the care taker of Rohit much to her shock when one day Rohit misbehave, asks her to forget about him and leave his house which she did. Heart broken and Ill-fated Chandni attempts to move on in live by working as a secretary at an airline service and comes across a kind-hearted boss by the name of Laliat Khanna. Chandni finds out that Laliat is another one who have been deprive of his beloved. Laliat introduces Chandni to his mom and she immediately took a liking to the girl and brings forward a proposal of marriage for her son to which Chandni immediately agrees. And then one day Chandni is shocked to see Rohit at her door-step but this time fit and fine and he too sets forward to marry her. Now Chandni must make a choice to spend her life with either Laliat or Rohit. Who will she choose?
Rohit loves Chandni, and decides to marry her against his family's wishes. Just before their wedding, Rohit falls from the helicopter, while trying to give Chandni a grand birthday surprise. The accident leaves him completely paralyzed. Rohit's family blames Chandni for the accident, but Chandni, despite their harsh and insulting comments, continues to visit Rohit every day to take care of him. Rohit starts to feel guilty for not being able to protect Chandni. He doesn't want her to spend her whole life taking care of a disabled man, so he purposefully breaks her heart by blaming her for the accident and asks her to leave him alone. Heart-broken Chandni moves to another city, where she gets a new job. Her boss, Lalit, falls in love with her and asks her to marry him. Chandni tries to reach Rohit but Rohit's mother who hates Chandni answers the phone and tells her to never call again. Chandni's friend convinces her to accept Lalit's proposal which Chandni hesitantly does. In the meanwhile, Rohit is in Switzerland for physiotherapy treatment and is now able to walk again. Lalit, while on a business trip, meets Rohit and they end up becoming friends. Rohit comes to give Chandni the good news, and while Chandni is very happy to see Rohit again, tells him that she is now engaged to someone else. Lalit knows Rohit's sad love story and Chandni's past, but he is not aware that Chandni is in fact the same girl that Rohit loves. Lalit invites Rohit to his wedding. Drunk Rohit falls off the stairs during the wedding ceremony, and seeing him fall Chandni screams and runs towards him crying for help, thinking that she lost him again. Lalit realizing Chandni's love for Rohit changes his mind about the wedding. In the last scene, we see Lalit wishing Rohit and Chandni good bye and good luck on their honeymoon as they drive off happily married.
Rohit Gupta belongs to a wealthy family. He meets with middle-classed Chandni and both fall in love with each other. Rohit and Chandni would like to get married, but Rohit's mom is dead-set against the marriage at all costs. But Rohit and Chandni are determined to get married, if necessary live separately. Before this could happen, Rohit meets with an accident, is hospitalized, and loses control of both his legs. Under these new circumstances, he decides he cannot marry Chandni and be a burden on her, and so he refuses to marry her. Years later, Rohit gets better and returns home, and cannot wait to meet Chandni and re-kindle their love-life. When he does meet Chandni, he is shocked to find that she is engaged to another young man by the name of Lalit Khanna, and her marriage is to take place soon. Now Chandni must decide whether to go ahead with marriage to Lalit, or break it off and marry Rohit.
A classic Yash Chopra love story - the story of how love takes the lives of three people and weaves them together - softly lyrical, throbbingly beautiful and filled with the sound of three hearts hopelessly in love...


Chandni is my name. Chandni is my life. Chandni is my dream.
There are not merely words. They are the lives of three people, inter woven together - Chandni, Rohit and Lalit's. Three names, three hearts, three dreams and one emotion - Love. From time immemorial whenever this word has been spoken, the winds have carried its fragrance, the flowers have bloomed with its beauty and lips have sung its songs.
Love came to Chandni and Rohit in one breathless moment when they first saw each other. The hustle and bustle of people around them faded away as if time itself had stopped. They reached out to each other and tried to fill their hands with the happiness of a lifetime. But happiness is elusive. It cannot be caught, not even by young lovers. In one cruel stroke, fate seperated them. Chandni was left heart broken and her dreams dispersed. She then gathered the memories of her love together and stepped out to face the world and into a new life.
And then she met Lalit. Lalit, whose past contained tragic memories of a first love. Memories, which lived with him. Memories, which even today shadowed his eyes and stilled the smile on his lips. But after he met Chandni, the sad memories receded into the distant past and the shadows were replaced by her radiance.
Lalit, a supportive presence and the unspoken affection that blazed from his eyes gave a new direction to Chandni's life. But she found herself standing at a crossroad. In one direction was Rohit and her past. In the other was Lalit and the present and in the third was a future that was unknown to all three.
They were all pawns in the game of fate. A game that was past truth, past illusion, past reality, past dreams. One thing was certain that truth and faith would prevail and in the end there would be only one winner. LOVE.

