Sam and Molly are a very happy couple and deeply in love. Walking back to their new apartment after a night out at the theatre, they encounter a thief in a dark alley, and Sam is murdered. He finds himself trapped as a ghost and realises that his death was no accident. He must warn Molly about the danger that she is in. But as a ghost he can not be seen or heard by the living, and so he tries to communicate with Molly through Oda Mae Brown, a psychic who didn't even realise that her powers were real.
Sam Wheat and his fiancée Molly Jensen live in Manhattan. Sam has a high powered job at a local bank, and Molly works on ceramic art. Sam's friend Carl Bruner also works at the bank. Sam holds the passwords to some of the bank's major accounts. While returning home from a movie theater, Sam and Molly are attacked by a mugger named Willie Lopez. As Sam and Willie struggle over Willie's gun, a shot rings out, and Willie runs off. Sam chases Willie, but Willie escapes. Sam then runs back to Molly to see if she's alright -- but Sam finds himself dead in a devastated Molly's arms, and Sam realizes that he is now a ghost. Later, Willie finds Sam and Molly's home, and breaks in while Molly is busy in the bedroom. Sam scares Willie off before Willie can do anything. Molly didn't even know Willie and Sam were in the place. Sam follows Willie to his home, and wants to have Molly turn Willie in, but Sam can't communicate with Molly because Molly can't see him or hear him. Sam visits spiritualist Ona May Brown, who can hear him, but not see him. When Sam convinces Ona May to talk to Molly, Molly refuses to believe what Ona May says, and Carl tells Molly to have nothing to do with Ona May. Sam follows Carl to Willie's apartment, thinking that Carl is about to confront Willie, but instead, Sam watches in shock as Carl chews Willie out for killing Sam. Willie was not supposed to kill Sam -- Willie was supposed to steal the account passwords from Sam's wallet for Carl, so Carl could carry out a drug money laundering operation. Now Sam and Ona May must protect Molly from both Willie and Carl, who thinks the account passwords are in Molly's home.
Sam Wheat is bank executive, who has moved in with his girlfriend, Molly. One night while out on a date, a man comes out of nowhere and pulls out a gun and demands Sam's wallet, Sam was about to give it to him when a scuffle broke out and Sam was killed. But Sam's spirit remains on Earth and is walking around and encounters other spirits, who tell him about his transformation. Sam hangs around Molly and despite her not knowing it is watching over her. One day the man who killed him breaks into the apartment and Sam stop's him before he could do anything to Molly. Sam follows him and discovers where he lives but unfortunately can't tell anyone. Sam then meets a supposed spiritualist, Oda Mae Brown, who is so obviously a huckster but who doesn't know that she can hear the dead. so when Sam speaks he hears her. He convinces her to tell Molly about the guy who broke into the apartment. Molly then goes to the police and they in turn tell her that Oda Mae's a con woman. She then tells her friend, Carl about what Oda Mae told her. He goes to investigate and Sam goes with him and discovers something terrible.
Sam Wheat was murdered during a date with his girlfriend Molly. Sam's spirit, in a mysterious manner, remains on the Earth, unseen to normal people. After following his murderer, Sam realizes that his death was not an accident, and that molly is in danger. Sam's ghost try to warn Molly, but she does not know it is really there. Then he meets a spiritualist named Oda Mae Brown, who can hear the dead. Sam speaks to hear and convince her to help him save Molly.
After an accident leaves a young man dead, his spirit stays behind to warn his lover of impending danger, with the help of a reluctant psychic.


Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze), a banker, and Molly Jensen (Demi Moore), a talented potter, are a loving couple who move into a New York City apartment. At work, Sam discovers discrepancies in some bank accounts and confides in his good friend and colleague, Carl Bruner (Tony Goldwyn). Carl offers to investigate the matter, but Sam decides to investigate himself. Soon afterward, Sam and Molly are attacked by armed thug Willy Lopez (Rick Aviles), after leaving a theater and Sam is killed by a gunshot in an ensuing fight with Willy. Sam's ghost arises from the dead body next to the distraught Molly and he gradually realizes that he is a ghost whose presence cannot be seen or heard.
Sam meets Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg), a con-artist posing as a medium and realizes she can hear him, although Oda Mae had been faking her abilities until then. Oda Mae is persuaded by Sam to tell Molly that she is in danger because Willy still has his wallet containing their address, but Molly is still in shock and will not believe Oda Mae. Carl convinces Molly that Oda Mae is a fraud. Sam discovers that Carl was involved in a money laundering scheme at the bank and that the attack was an attempt by Carl to acquire Sam's security codes.
Molly remains unconvinced by Oda Mae's messages and even talks to the Police, but they inform her that Oda Mae is a known confidence trickster.
Sam learns from an aggressive New York City subway poltergeist (Vincent Schiavelli) how to master the skill of moving solid objects by his mental powers alone. He persuades Oda Mae to thwart Carl's money laundering scheme by impersonating the owner of Carl's fake bank account. With Sam sitting next to her unseen, she withdraws the balance and closes the account, donating the amount ($4 million) to a homeless shelter.
Carl is desperate when he cannot access the fake bank account which is now closed. He learns that Oda Mae closed the account and declares that if the money is not returned, he will kill Molly. Sam catches Willy in Oda Mae's apartment and physically attacks him. Terror-stricken, Willy attempts to escape from Sam but is killed in a traffic accident. Willy's ghost arises, only to be grabbed by a group of howling demons and pulled into the shadows, presumably to Hell.
Afterwards, Sam and Oda Mae return to Molly's apartment to warn her about Carl, but she refuses to let her in and breaks down in grief. Sam enters the apartment and tells Ode Mae to push a penny under the front door, which Sam lifts into the air in front of Molly. Astonished, she finally realizes the truth and lets Ode Mae inside. After calling the Police about Carl, Ode Mae allows Sam to possess her body, allowing him and Molly to share a dance one final time.
Carl arrives, prepared to murder Molly and Oda Mae, but they flee. Sam is left momentarily weakened by the possession, leaving Molly and Oda Mae to fend for themselves against Carl. After evading him for a brief time, he seizes Ode Mae and threatens her at gunpoint for the money. Molly comes to Oda Mae's rescue and is knocked aside just as a fully recovered Sam arrives to help them. Finally, Carl attempts to flee through a nearby window, but not before flinging a scaffolding hook in Sam's direction. The hook swings back and partially shatters the glass in the upper part of the window, which plummets down on Carl as he is climbing through, impaling him through the chest. Carl becomes a ghost himself much to his astonishment and to Sam's grief. Sam then watches in silence as the shadowy demons arrive and drag a screaming Carl away into the darkness.
As Sam goes to Oda Mae and Molly and asks if they are all right, Molly suddenly realizes that she can hear him. As a heavenly light begins to fill the room, Sam becomes fully visible to both Molly and Oda Mae. Sam looks behind him and sees hundreds of people, presumably angels. Now realizing that his task is completed, he can finally move on. After thanking Oda Mae for everything she has done to help him, Sam says an emotional farewell to Molly and departs to the after life.

